https://docs.immich.app/features/mobile-app/

Mobile App | Immich
Skip to main content
Home
GitHub
Buy Immich
Overview
Install
Features
Mobile Backup
Chromecast support
The Immich CLI
Duplicates Utility
Editing
Facial Recognition
Folder View
Hardware Transcoding
External Libraries
Hardware-Accelerated Machine Learning
Mobile App
Monitoring
Partner Sharing
Reverse Geocoding
Searching
Sharing
Supported Media Formats
Tags
User Settings
XMP Sidecars
Administration
Developer
Guides
FAQ
API
Features
Mobile App
On this page
Mobile App
Download
​
The mobile app can be downloaded from the following places:
Apple App Store
Google Play Store
GitHub Releases (APK)
Obtainium: You can get your Obtainium config link from the 
Utilities page of your Immich server
.
F-Droid
Android verification
Below are the SHA-256 fingerprints for the certificates signing the android applications.
Google Play releases:
5A:22:C1:83:47:54:05:F5:49:C4:EB:9F:B2:6C:2E:93:A3:EF:9C:57:66:15:0A:7A:F3:8C:8D:3F:E5:15:CC:D6
GitHub releases:
86:C5:C4:55:DF:AF:49:85:92:3A:8F:35:AD:B3:1D:0C:9E:0B:95:7D:7F:94:C2:D2:AF:6A:24:38:AA:96:00:20
F-Droid releases:
FA:8B:43:95:F4:A6:47:71:A0:53:D1:C7:57:73:5F:A2:30:13:74:F5:3D:58:0D:D1:75:AA:F7:A1:35:72:9C:BF
Login
​
Login to the mobile app with the server endpoint URL at 
http://<machine-ip-address>:2283
Backup
​
Navigate to the backup screen by clicking on the cloud icon in the top right corner of the screen.
You can select which album(s) you want to back up to the Immich server from the backup screen.
Scroll down to the bottom and press "
Enable Backup
" to start the backup process. This will upload all the assets in the selected albums.
info
You can read more about backup options 
here
.
Sync only selected photos
​
If you have a large number of photos on the device, and you would prefer not to backup all the photos, then it might be prudent to only backup selected photos from device to the Immich server.
First, you need to enable the Storage Indicator in your app's settings. Navigate to 
Settings -> Photo Grid
 and enable 
Show Storage indicator on asset tiles
; this makes it easy to distinguish local-only assets and synced assets.
note
This will enable a small cloud icon on the bottom right corner of the asset tile, indicating that the asset is synced to the server:
 - Local-only asset; not synced to the server
 - Asset is synced to the server
Now make sure that the local album is selected in the backup screen (steps 1-2 above). You can find these albums listed in 
Library -> On this device
. To selectively upload photos from these albums, simply select the local-only photos and tap on the 
Upload
 button in the dynamic bottom menu.
Free Up Space
​
Free Up Space
 allows you to remove local media files from your device that have already been successfully backed up to your Immich server (and are not in Immich trash). This helps reclaim storage on your mobile device without losing your memories.
How it works
​
Configuration:
Cutoff date:
 Free Up Space will only look for photos and videos 
on or before
 this date. Photos removed from the device don't show up in other (messaging) apps and have to be shared from Immich in order to send them.
Keep favorites:
 This works the same way 
Keep albums
 does. By default, favorited assets are preserved on your device.
Keep albums:
 Hold all photos and videos in the selected albums on your device, regardless of other settings. By default, 
WhatsApp
related albums
 are selected to be kept on the device. Assets not already on the device will not be re-downloaded.
Keep on device:
 You can choose to restrict removal to 
Always keep
All photos
 or 
All videos
, regardless of other settings. This setting can hamper freeing up space significantly — with 80 GB of videos and 40 GB photos, selecting 
Always keep photos
 retains thousands of photos on your device.
Scan & Review:
 Before any files are removed, you are presented with a review screen to verify which items will be deleted and how much storage is reclamable.
Deletion:
 Confirmed items are moved to your device's native Trash/Recycle Bin. For large queues, Immich processes deletion in batches for stability (
2000
 assets per batch on Android, 
10000
 per batch on iOS).
reclaim storage
To use the reclaimed space right away, you must empty the system/gallery trash manually outside of Immich.
Provided the server is healthy and 
backed up
, assets removed by Free Up Space can always be accessed in the Immich app.
iCloud Photos
​
If you use 
iCloud Photos
 alongside Immich, it is vital to understand how deletion affects your data. After using 
Free Up Space
, the photo will be stored 
only
 on your Immich server (and your phone's "Recently Deleted" folder for 30 days).
Assets that are part of an 
iCloud Shared Album
 are automatically excluded from the cleanup scan because iCloud does not allow removing the items in Shared Album from the device.
iCloud & Backups
If, in addition to Immich, you rely on iCloud as a secondary backup (as part of your 
3-2-1
 backup strategy), you should instead use 
Optimize iPhone Storage
 in 
iCloud Photos
.
iCloud utilizes a two-way sync; this means deleting a photo, or using Free Up Space from your iPhone will 
also delete it from iCloud
 and all other devices (Mac, iPad) where you're signed in with the same Apple Account. See 
Apple Support
 for more info.
External App Dependencies (WhatsApp, etc.)
​
Android applications like 
WhatsApp
 rely on local files to display media in chat history.
If Immich backs up your WhatsApp folder and you run 
Free Up Space
, the local copies of these images will be deleted. Consequently, 
media in your WhatsApp chats will appear blurry or missing.
 You will only be able to view these photos inside the Immich app; they will no longer be visible within the WhatsApp interface.
Recommendation:
 If keeping chat history intact is important, exclude WhatsApp with 
Keep albums
 in Free Up Space and review the deletion list carefully. You have to enable 
Album Sync
 for WhatsApp to show up in the list. Alternatively, don't 
back up
 WhatsApp with Immich.
Album Sync
​
You can sync or mirror an album from your phone to the Immich server on your account. For example, if you select Recents, Camera and Videos album for backup, the corresponding album with the same name will be created on the server. Once the assets from those albums are uploaded, they will be put into the target albums automatically.
Album Synchronization Highlights
​
One-Way Sync:
 Synchronization is one-way, from the device to the server.
Name Matching:
 If an album on the server has the same name as the album on the device, images from the device will be merged with the existing images in the server album.
Shared Albums:
 If the matching album on the server is shared, the new photos merged into the album will also be shared.
Album Structure:
 When an album is created for the first time, its structure is based on the initial state. Future updates made on the phone (such as deleting or repositioning photos) will not be reflected in Immich.
User-Specific Sync:
 Album synchronization is unique to each server user and does not sync between different users or partners.
Mobile-Only Feature:
 Album synchronization is currently only available on mobile. For similar options on a computer, refer to 
Libraries
 for further details.
Synchronizing albums from the past
​
Albums can be synchronized to the server even if they did not exist on the server before. You can enable this feature at any time and use the 
Reorganize into album
 button to backfill existing uploads into their corresponding albums.
Sync albums delete/move photos
If you delete/move photos in the local album on your device, it will not be reflected in the album on the server 
even if
 you click Sync albums
It will only reflect files you add.
Read-only/kid Mode
​
You can set the app to read-only mode to prevent accidental deletion of photos from your device, and only allow viewing photos on the timeline.
To toggle this feature, long-press the profile icon or go to 
Settings > Advanced > Read-only Mode
.
Edit this page
Last updated
 on 
Jul 27, 2026
 by 
github-actions
Previous
Hardware-Accelerated Machine Learning
Next
Monitoring
Download
Login
Backup
Sync only selected photos
Free Up Space
How it works
iCloud Photos
External App Dependencies (WhatsApp, etc.)
Album Sync
Album Synchronization Highlights
Synchronizing albums from the past
Read-only/kid Mode
Download
Android
iOS
Server
Company
FUTO
Purchase
Merch
Sites
Home
My Immich
Awesome Immich
Immich API
Immich Data
Immich Datasets
Miscellaneous
Roadmap
Cursed Knowledge
Privacy Policy
Social
GitHub
YouTube
Discord
Reddit
Immich is available as open source under the terms of the GNU AGPL v3 License.
