https://pve.proxmox.com/pve-docs/chapter-qm.html

QEMU/KVM Virtual Machines
☰
QEMU/KVM Virtual Machines
Proxmox Server Solutions GmbH
<
support@proxmox.com
>
version 9.2.4,
Tue Aug  4 00:30:32 CEST 2026
↩Index
Table of Contents
JavaScript must be enabled in your browser to display the table of contents.
↑
QEMU (short form for Quick Emulator) is an open source hypervisor that emulates a
physical computer. From the perspective of the host system where QEMU is
running, QEMU is a user program which has access to a number of local resources
like partitions, files, network cards which are then passed to an
emulated computer which sees them as if they were real devices. 
A guest operating system running in the emulated computer accesses these
devices, and runs as if it were running on real hardware. For instance, you can pass
an ISO image as a parameter to QEMU, and the OS running in the emulated computer
will see a real CD-ROM inserted into a CD drive.
QEMU can emulate a great variety of hardware, from ARM to Sparc. On x86 hosts,
Proxmox VE is concerned with 32-bit and 64-bit PC clone emulation, since it
represents the overwhelming majority of server hardware. On arm64 hosts, Proxmox VE
emulates 64-bit ARM (aarch64) machines instead. Emulating the same architecture as the host is also one of the
fastest options, due to the availability of processor extensions which greatly
speed up QEMU when the emulated architecture matches the host architecture.
You may sometimes encounter the term 
KVM
 (Kernel-based Virtual Machine).
It means that QEMU is running with the support of the virtualization processor
extensions, via the Linux KVM module. In the context of Proxmox VE 
QEMU
 and
KVM
 can be used interchangeably, as QEMU in Proxmox VE will always try to load the KVM
module.
QEMU inside Proxmox VE runs as a root process, since this is required to access block
and PCI devices.
Emulated devices and paravirtualized devices
The PC hardware emulated by QEMU includes a motherboard, network controllers,
SCSI, IDE and SATA controllers, serial ports (the complete list can be seen in
the 
kvm(1)
 man page) all of them emulated in software. All these devices
are the exact software equivalent of existing hardware devices, and if the OS
running in the guest has the proper drivers it will use the devices as if it
were running on real hardware. This allows QEMU to run 
unmodified
 operating
systems.
This however has a performance cost, as running in software what was meant to
run in hardware involves a lot of extra work for the host CPU. To mitigate this,
QEMU can present to the guest operating system 
paravirtualized devices
, where
the guest OS recognizes it is running inside QEMU and cooperates with the
hypervisor.
QEMU relies on the virtio virtualization standard, and is thus able to present
paravirtualized virtio devices, which includes a paravirtualized generic disk
controller, a paravirtualized network card, a paravirtualized serial port,
a paravirtualized SCSI controller, etc …
It is 
highly recommended
 to use the virtio devices whenever you can, as
they provide a big performance improvement and are generally better maintained.
Using the virtio generic disk controller versus an emulated IDE controller will
double the sequential write throughput, as measured with 
bonnie++(8)
. Using
the virtio network interface can deliver up to three times the throughput of an
emulated Intel E1000 network card, as measured with 
iperf(1)
. 
[See
this benchmark on the KVM wiki 
https://www.linux-kvm.org/page/Using_VirtIO_NIC
]
Virtual Machines Settings
Generally speaking Proxmox VE tries to choose sane defaults for virtual machines
(VM). Make sure you understand the meaning of the settings you change, as it
could incur a performance slowdown, or putting your data at risk.
General Settings
General settings of a VM include
the 
Node
 : the physical server on which the VM will run
the 
VM ID
: a unique number in this Proxmox VE installation used to identify your VM
Name
: a free form text string you can use to describe the VM
Resource Pool
: a logical group of VMs
OS Settings
When creating a virtual machine (VM), setting the proper Operating System(OS)
allows Proxmox VE to optimize some low level parameters. For instance Windows OS
expect the BIOS clock to use the local time, while Unix based OS expect the
BIOS clock to have the UTC time.
System Settings
On VM creation you can change some basic system components of the new VM. You
can specify which 
display type
 you want to use.
Additionally, the 
SCSI controller
 can be changed.
If you plan to install the QEMU Guest Agent, or if your selected ISO image
already ships and installs it automatically, you may want to tick the 
QEMU
Agent
 box, which lets Proxmox VE know that it can use its features to show some
more information, and complete some actions (for example, shutdown or
snapshots) more intelligently.
Proxmox VE allows to boot VMs with different firmware and machine types, namely
SeaBIOS and OVMF
. In most cases you want to switch from
the default SeaBIOS to OVMF only if you plan to use
PCIe passthrough
. On arm64 hosts OVMF is the default
and only option, as SeaBIOS is x86-only.
Machine Type
A VM’s 
Machine Type
 defines the hardware layout of the VM’s virtual
motherboard. You can choose between the default
Intel 440FX
 or the
Q35
chipset, which also provides a virtual PCIe bus, and thus may be
desired if you want to pass through PCIe hardware.
Additionally, you can select a 
vIOMMU
 implementation.
The Intel 440FX and Q35 chipsets are specific to x86 guests. On arm64
hosts, virtual machines use the 
virt
 machine type, which models a generic,
UEFI-based ARM machine.
Machine Version
Each machine type is versioned in QEMU and a given QEMU binary supports many
machine versions. New versions might bring support for new features, fixes or
general improvements. However, they also change properties of the virtual
hardware. To avoid sudden changes from the guest’s perspective and ensure
compatibility of the VM state, live-migration and snapshots with RAM will keep
using the same machine version in the new QEMU instance.
For Windows guests, the machine version is pinned during creation, because
Windows is sensitive to changes in the virtual hardware - even between cold
boots. For example, the enumeration of network devices might be different with
different machine versions. Other OSes like Linux can usually deal with such
changes just fine. For those, the 
Latest
 machine version is used by default.
This means that after a fresh start, the newest machine version supported by the
QEMU binary is used (e.g. the newest machine version QEMU 8.1 supports is
version 8.1 for each machine type).
The machine version is also used as a safeguard when implementing new features
or fixes that would change the hardware layout to ensure backward compatibility.
For operations on a running VM, such as live migrations, the running machine
version is saved to ensure that the VM can be recovered exactly as it was, not
only from a QEMU virtualization perspective, but also in terms of how Proxmox VE will
create the QEMU virtual machine instance.
PVE Machine Revision
Sometimes Proxmox VE needs to make changes to the hardware layout or modify options
without waiting for a new QEMU release. For this, Proxmox VE has added an extra
downstream revision in the form of 
+pveX
.
In these revisions, 
X
 is 0 for each new QEMU machine version and is omitted in
this case, e.g. machine version 
pc-q35-9.2
 would be the same as machine
version 
pc-q35-9.2+pve0
.
If Proxmox VE wants to change the hardware layout or a default option, the revision
is incremented and used for newly created guests or on reboot for VMs that
always use the latest machine version.
QEMU Machine Version Deprecation
Starting with QEMU 10.1, machine versions are removed from upstream QEMU after 6
years. In Proxmox VE, major releases happen approximately every 2 years, so a major
Proxmox VE release will support machine versions from approximately two previous
major Proxmox VE releases.
Before upgrading to a new major Proxmox VE release, you should update VM
configurations to avoid all machine versions that will be dropped during the
next major Proxmox VE release. This ensures that the guests can still be used
throughout that release. See the section
Update to a Newer Machine Version
.
The removal policy is not yet in effect for Proxmox VE 8, so the baseline for
supported machine versions is 2.4. The last QEMU binary version released for
Proxmox VE 9 is expected to be QEMU 11.2. This QEMU binary will remove support for
machine versions older than 6.0, so 6.0 is the baseline for the Proxmox VE 9 release
life cycle. The baseline is expected to increase by 2 major versions for each
major Proxmox VE release, for example 8.0 for Proxmox VE 10.
Update to a Newer Machine Version
If you see a deprecation warning, you should change the machine version to a
newer one. Be sure to have a working backup first and be prepared for changes to
how the guest sees hardware. In some scenarios, re-installing certain drivers
might be required. You should also check for snapshots with RAM that were taken
with these machine versions (i.e. the 
runningmachine
 configuration entry).
Unfortunately, there is no way to change the machine version of a snapshot, so
you’d need to load the snapshot to salvage any data from it.
Hard Disk
Bus/Controller
QEMU can emulate a number of storage controllers:
It is highly recommended to use the 
VirtIO SCSI
 or 
VirtIO Block
controller for performance reasons and because they are better maintained.
the 
IDE
 controller, has a design which goes back to the 1984 PC/AT disk
controller. Even if this controller has been superseded by recent designs,
each and every OS you can think of has support for it, making it a great choice
if you want to run an OS released before 2003. You can connect up to 4 devices
on this controller.
the 
SATA
 (Serial ATA) controller, dating from 2003, has a more modern
design, allowing higher throughput and a greater number of devices to be
connected. You can connect up to 6 devices on this controller.
the 
SCSI
 controller, designed in 1985, is commonly found on server grade
hardware, and can connect up to 14 storage devices. Proxmox VE emulates by default a
LSI 53C895A controller.
A SCSI controller of type 
VirtIO SCSI single
 and enabling the
IO Thread
 setting for the attached disks is
recommended if you aim for performance. This is the default for newly created
Linux VMs since Proxmox VE 7.3. Each disk will have its own 
VirtIO SCSI
 controller,
and QEMU will handle the disks IO in a dedicated thread. Linux distributions
have support for this controller since 2012, and FreeBSD since 2014. For Windows
OSes, you need to provide an extra ISO containing the drivers during the
installation.
The 
VirtIO Block
 controller, often just called VirtIO or virtio-blk,
is an older type of paravirtualized controller. It has been superseded by the
VirtIO SCSI Controller, in terms of features.
Image Format
On each controller you attach a number of emulated hard disks, which are backed
by a file or a block device residing in the configured storage. The choice of
a storage type will determine the format of the hard disk image. Storages which
present block devices (LVM, ZFS, Ceph) will require the 
raw disk image format
,
whereas files based storages (like Ext4, XFS, NFS, or CIFS) will let you to
choose either the 
raw disk image format
 or the 
QEMU image format
.
the 
QEMU image format
 is a copy on write format which allows snapshots, and
  thin provisioning of the disk image.
the 
raw disk image
 is a bit-to-bit image of a hard disk, similar to what
 you would get when executing the 
dd
 command on a block device in Linux. This
 format does not support thin provisioning or snapshots by itself, requiring
 cooperation from the storage layer for these tasks. It may, however, be up to
 10% faster than the 
QEMU image format
. 
[See this benchmark for details
https://events.static.linuxfound.org/sites/events/files/slides/CloudOpen2013_Khoa_Huynh_v3.pdf
]
the 
VMware image format
 only makes sense if you intend to import/export the
 disk image to other hypervisors.
Cache Mode
Setting the 
Cache
 mode of the hard drive will impact how the host system will
notify the guest systems of block write completions. The 
No cache
 default
means that the guest system will be notified that a write is complete when each
block reaches the physical storage write queue, ignoring the host page cache.
This provides a good balance between safety and speed.
If you want the Proxmox VE backup manager to skip a disk when doing a backup of a VM,
you can set the 
No backup
 option on that disk.
If you want the Proxmox VE storage replication mechanism to skip a disk when starting
 a replication job, you can set the 
Skip replication
 option on that disk.
As of Proxmox VE 5.0, replication requires the disk images to be on a storage of type
zfspool
, so adding a disk image to other storages when the VM has replication
configured requires to skip replication for this disk image.
Trim/Discard
If your storage supports 
thin provisioning
 (see the storage chapter in the
Proxmox VE guide), you can activate the 
Discard
 option on a drive. With 
Discard
set and a 
TRIM
-enabled guest OS 
[TRIM, UNMAP, and discard
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trim_%28computing%29
]
, when the VM’s filesystem
marks blocks as unused after deleting files, the controller will relay this
information to the storage, which will then shrink the disk image accordingly.
For the guest to be able to issue 
TRIM
 commands, you must enable the 
Discard
option on the drive. Some guest operating systems may also require the
SSD Emulation
 flag to be set. Note that 
Discard
 on 
VirtIO Block
 drives is
only supported on guests using Linux Kernel 5.0 or higher.
If you would like a drive to be presented to the guest as a solid-state drive
rather than a rotational hard disk, you can set the 
SSD emulation
 option on
that drive. There is no requirement that the underlying storage actually be
backed by SSDs; this feature can be used with physical media of any type.
Note that 
SSD emulation
 is not supported on 
VirtIO Block
 drives.
IO Thread
The option 
IO Thread
 can only be used when using a disk with the 
VirtIO
controller, or with the 
SCSI
 controller, when the emulated controller type is
VirtIO SCSI single
. With 
IO Thread
 enabled, QEMU creates one I/O thread per
storage controller rather than handling all I/O in the main event loop or vCPU
threads. One benefit is better work distribution and utilization of the
underlying storage. Another benefit is reduced latency (hangs) in the guest for
very I/O-intensive host workloads, since neither the main thread nor a vCPU
thread can be blocked by disk I/O.
CPU
A 
CPU socket
 is a physical slot on a PC motherboard where you can plug a CPU.
This CPU can then contain one or many 
cores
, which are independent
processing units. Whether you have a single CPU socket with 4 cores, or two CPU
sockets with two cores is mostly irrelevant from a performance point of view.
However some software licenses depend on the number of sockets a machine has,
in that case it makes sense to set the number of sockets to what the license
allows you.
Increasing the number of virtual CPUs (cores and sockets) will usually provide a
performance improvement though that is heavily dependent on the use of the VM.
Multi-threaded applications will of course benefit from a large number of
virtual CPUs, as for each virtual cpu you add, QEMU will create a new thread of
execution on the host system. If you’re not sure about the workload of your VM,
it is usually a safe bet to set the number of 
Total cores
 to 2.
It is perfectly safe if the 
overall
 number of cores of all your VMs
is greater than the number of cores on the server (for example, 4 VMs each with
4 cores (= total 16) on a machine with only 8 cores). In that case the host
system will balance the QEMU execution threads between your server cores, just
like if you were running a standard multi-threaded application. However, Proxmox VE
will prevent you from starting VMs with more virtual CPU cores than physically
available, as this will only bring the performance down due to the cost of
context switches.
Resource Limits
cpulimit
In addition to the number of virtual cores, the total available “Host CPU
Time” for the VM can be set with the 
cpulimit
 option. It is a floating point
value representing CPU time in percent, so 
1.0
 is equal to 
100%
, 
2.5
 to
250%
 and so on. If a single process would fully use one single core it would
have 
100%
 CPU Time usage. If a VM with four cores utilizes all its cores
fully it would theoretically use 
400%
. In reality the usage may be even a bit
higher as QEMU can have additional threads for VM peripherals besides the vCPU
core ones.
This setting can be useful when a VM should have multiple vCPUs because it is
running some processes in parallel, but the VM as a whole should not be able to
run all vCPUs at 100% at the same time.
For example, suppose you have a virtual machine that would benefit from having 8
virtual CPUs, but you don’t want the VM to be able to max out all 8 cores
running at full load - because that would overload the server and leave other
virtual machines and containers with too little CPU time. To solve this, you
could set 
cpulimit
 to 
4.0
 (=400%). This means that if the VM fully utilizes
all 8 virtual CPUs by running 8 processes simultaneously, each vCPU will receive
a maximum of 50% CPU time from the physical cores. However, if the VM workload
only fully utilizes 4 virtual CPUs, it could still receive up to 100% CPU time
from a physical core, for a total of 400%.
VMs can, depending on their configuration, use additional threads, such
as for networking or IO operations but also live migration. Thus a VM can show
up to use more CPU time than just its virtual CPUs could use. To ensure that a
VM never uses more CPU time than vCPUs assigned, set the 
cpulimit
 to
the same value as the total core count.
cpuunits
With the 
cpuunits
 option, nowadays often called CPU shares or CPU weight, you
can control how much CPU time a VM gets compared to other running VMs. It is a
relative weight which defaults to 
100
 (or 
1024
 if the host uses legacy
cgroup v1). If you increase this for a VM it will be prioritized by the
scheduler in comparison to other VMs with lower weight.
For example, if VM 100 has set the default 
100
 and VM 200 was changed to
200
, the latter VM 200 would receive twice the CPU bandwidth than the first
VM 100.
For more information see 
man systemd.resource-control
, here 
CPUQuota
corresponds to 
cpulimit
 and 
CPUWeight
 to our 
cpuunits
 setting. Visit its
Notes section for references and implementation details.
affinity
With the 
affinity
 option, you can specify the physical CPU cores that are used
to run the VM’s vCPUs. Peripheral VM processes, such as those for I/O, are not
affected by this setting. Note that the 
CPU affinity is not a security
feature
.
Forcing a CPU 
affinity
 can make sense in certain cases but is accompanied by
an increase in complexity and maintenance effort. For example, if you want to
add more VMs later or migrate VMs to nodes with fewer CPU cores. It can also
easily lead to asynchronous and therefore limited system performance if some
CPUs are fully utilized while others are almost idle.
The 
affinity
 is set through the 
taskset
 CLI tool. It accepts the host CPU
numbers (see 
lscpu
) in the 
List Format
 from 
man cpuset
. This ASCII decimal
list can contain numbers but also number ranges. For example, the 
affinity
0-1,8-11
 (expanded 
0, 1, 8, 9, 10, 11
) would allow the VM to run on only
these six specific host cores.
CPU Type
QEMU can emulate a number different of 
CPU types
 from 486 to the latest Xeon
processors. Each new processor generation adds new features, like hardware
assisted 3d rendering, random number generation, memory protection, etc. Also,
a current generation can be upgraded through
microcode update
 with bug or security fixes.
Usually you should select for your VM a processor type which closely matches the
CPU of the host system, as it means that the host CPU features (also called 
CPU
flags
 ) will be available in your VMs. If you want an exact match, you can set
the CPU type to 
host
 in which case the VM will have exactly the same CPU flags
as your host system.
This has a downside though. If you want to do a live migration of VMs between
different hosts, your VM might end up on a new system with a different CPU type
or a different microcode version.
If the CPU flags passed to the guest are missing, the QEMU process will stop. To
remedy this QEMU has also its own virtual CPU types, that Proxmox VE uses by default.
The backend default is 
kvm64
 which works on essentially all x86_64 host CPUs
and the UI default when creating a new VM is 
x86-64-v2-AES
, which requires a
host CPU starting from Westmere for Intel or at least a fourth generation
Opteron for AMD.
The 
kvm64
 and 
x86-64-v*
 CPU models described here are x86-only. On
arm64 hosts, guests use ARM CPU models: 
host
 to expose the physical CPU
(recommended on the supported hardware), or a generic model such as 
max
,
together with the 
virt
 machine type.
In short:
If you don’t care about live migration or have a homogeneous cluster where all
nodes have the same CPU and same microcode version, set the CPU type to host, as
in theory this will give your guests maximum performance.
If you care about live migration and security, and you have only Intel CPUs or
only AMD CPUs, choose the lowest generation CPU model of your cluster.
If you care about live migration without security, or have mixed Intel/AMD
cluster, choose the lowest compatible virtual QEMU CPU type.
Live migrations between Intel and AMD host CPUs have no guarantee to work.
See also
List of AMD and Intel CPU Types as Defined in QEMU
.
QEMU CPU Types
QEMU also provide virtual CPU types, compatible with both Intel and AMD host
CPUs.
To mitigate the Spectre vulnerability for virtual CPU types, you need to
add the relevant CPU flags, see
Meltdown / Spectre related CPU flags
.
Historically, Proxmox VE had the 
kvm64
 CPU model, with CPU flags at the level of
Pentium 4 enabled, so performance was not great for certain workloads.
In the summer of 2020, AMD, Intel, Red Hat, and SUSE collaborated to define
three x86-64 microarchitecture levels on top of the x86-64 baseline, with modern
flags enabled. For details, see the
x86-64-ABI specification
.
Some newer distributions like CentOS 9 are now built with 
x86-64-v2
flags as a minimum requirement.
kvm64 (x86-64-v1)
: Compatible with Intel CPU >= Pentium 4, AMD CPU >=
Phenom.
x86-64-v2
: Compatible with Intel CPU >= Nehalem, AMD CPU >= Opteron_G3.
Added CPU flags compared to 
x86-64-v1
: 
+cx16
, 
+lahf-lm
, 
+popcnt
, 
+pni
,
+sse4.1
, 
+sse4.2
, 
+ssse3
.
x86-64-v2-AES
: Compatible with Intel CPU >= Westmere, AMD CPU >= Opteron_G4.
Added CPU flags compared to 
x86-64-v2
: 
+aes
.
x86-64-v3
: Compatible with Intel CPU >= Haswell, AMD CPU >= EPYC. Added
CPU flags compared to 
x86-64-v2-AES
: 
+avx
, 
+avx2
, 
+bmi1
, 
+bmi2
,
+f16c
, 
+fma
, 
+movbe
, 
+xsave
.
x86-64-v4
: Compatible with Intel CPU >= Skylake, AMD CPU >= EPYC v4 Genoa.
Added CPU flags compared to 
x86-64-v3
: 
+avx512f
, 
+avx512bw
, 
+avx512cd
,
+avx512dq
, 
+avx512vl
.
Custom CPU Types
You can define custom CPU types with a configurable set of base model, vendor,
physical address bits, and per-flag toggles, then assign them to VMs like a
built-in type. Custom types are referenced from a VM configuration as
custom-<name>
.
Manage them under 
Datacenter -> Custom CPU Models
 in the web UI. The model
dialog embeds a flag editor grid with free-text search over flag name and
description, an accelerator (kvm/tcg) selector, and a per-node multi-select
that highlights the flags each selected cluster node currently reports as
supported - useful to spot which flags would actually be available on the
target hosts before committing to a model. The same grid is reused in the
per-VM 
Processor
 edit dialog, restricted there to the flags settable per
VM; configured flags unknown to the API or unsupported on the selected
accelerator surface at the top with a warning.
Custom CPU types are still backed by the configuration file
/etc/pve/virtual-guest/cpu-models.conf
 and can be maintained from the CLI
as well, see 
man cpu-models.conf
 for the format.
Access to a custom model is controlled per model via the ACL path
/mapping/cpu/<name>
. 
Mapping.Audit
 lets a user see the model in
listings, 
Mapping.Modify
 gates create/update/delete in the panel, and
Mapping.Use
 is required to assign the model to a VM. The latter is
enforced on VM create, VM update, and VM clone, so a user who can clone a VM
that uses a custom model still needs 
Mapping.Use
 on that model’s ACL path.
Meltdown / Spectre related CPU flags
There are several CPU flags related to the Meltdown and Spectre vulnerabilities
[Meltdown Attack 
https://meltdownattack.com/
]
 which need to be set
manually unless the selected CPU type of your VM already enables them by default.
There are two requirements that need to be fulfilled in order to use these
CPU flags:
The host CPU(s) must support the feature and propagate it to the guest’s virtual CPU(s)
The guest operating system must be updated to a version which mitigates the
  attacks and is able to utilize the CPU feature
Otherwise you need to set the desired CPU flag of the virtual CPU, either by
editing the CPU options in the web UI, or by setting the 
flags
 property of the
cpu
 option in the VM configuration file.
For Spectre v1,v2,v4 fixes, your CPU or system vendor also needs to provide a
so-called “microcode update” for your CPU, see
chapter Firmware Updates
. Note that not all
affected CPUs can be updated to support spec-ctrl.
To check if the Proxmox VE host is vulnerable, execute the following command as root:
for f in /sys/devices/system/cpu/vulnerabilities/*; do echo "${f##*/} -" $(cat "$f"); done
A community script is also available to detect if the host is still vulnerable.
[spectre-meltdown-checker 
https://meltdown.ovh/
]
Intel processors
pcid
This reduces the performance impact of the Meltdown (CVE-2017-5754) mitigation
called 
Kernel Page-Table Isolation (KPTI)
, which effectively hides
the Kernel memory from the user space. Without PCID, KPTI is quite an expensive
mechanism 
[PCID is now a critical performance/security feature on x86
https://groups.google.com/forum/m/#!topic/mechanical-sympathy/L9mHTbeQLNU
]
.
To check if the Proxmox VE host supports PCID, execute the following command as root:
# grep ' pcid ' /proc/cpuinfo
If this does not return empty your host’s CPU has support for 
pcid
.
spec-ctrl
Required to enable the Spectre v1 (CVE-2017-5753) and Spectre v2 (CVE-2017-5715) fix,
in cases where retpolines are not sufficient.
Included by default in Intel CPU models with -IBRS suffix.
Must be explicitly turned on for Intel CPU models without -IBRS suffix.
Requires an updated host CPU microcode (intel-microcode >= 20180425).
ssbd
Required to enable the Spectre V4 (CVE-2018-3639) fix. Not included by default in any Intel CPU model.
Must be explicitly turned on for all Intel CPU models.
Requires an updated host CPU microcode(intel-microcode >= 20180703).
AMD processors
ibpb
Required to enable the Spectre v1 (CVE-2017-5753) and Spectre v2 (CVE-2017-5715) fix,
in cases where retpolines are not sufficient.
Included by default in AMD CPU models with -IBPB suffix.
Must be explicitly turned on for AMD CPU models without -IBPB suffix.
Requires the host CPU microcode to support this feature before it can be used for guest CPUs.
virt-ssbd
Required to enable the Spectre v4 (CVE-2018-3639) fix.
Not included by default in any AMD CPU model.
Must be explicitly turned on for all AMD CPU models.
This should be provided to guests, even if amd-ssbd is also provided, for maximum guest compatibility.
Note that this must be explicitly enabled when when using the "host" cpu model,
because this is a virtual feature which does not exist in the physical CPUs.
amd-ssbd
Required to enable the Spectre v4 (CVE-2018-3639) fix.
Not included by default in any AMD CPU model. Must be explicitly turned on for all AMD CPU models.
This provides higher performance than virt-ssbd, therefore a host supporting this should always expose this to guests if possible.
virt-ssbd should none the less also be exposed for maximum guest compatibility as some kernels only know about virt-ssbd.
amd-no-ssb
Recommended to indicate the host is not vulnerable to Spectre V4 (CVE-2018-3639).
Not included by default in any AMD CPU model.
Future hardware generations of CPU will not be vulnerable to CVE-2018-3639,
and thus the guest should be told not to enable its mitigations, by exposing amd-no-ssb.
This is mutually exclusive with virt-ssbd and amd-ssbd.
Windows-related CPU settings
A couple of CPU defaults and properties are tuned specifically for Windows
guests on recent Intel hardware:
cet-ibt
 and 
cet-ss
 (Control-flow Enforcement Technology: indirect
  branch tracking and shadow stack) are disabled by default for Windows 11
  machine types, as they currently break boot for Windows guests with
  virtualization-based security enabled. Workloads that explicitly rely on
  the flags can re-enable them per VM via the 
Processor
 flag editor.
The QEMU 
level
 CPU property is exposed so it can be set per VM (or in a
  custom CPU model) without resorting to custom 
args
. Setting 
level=30
  is a known workaround for Hyper-V boot failures of Windows guests on
  recent Intel hosts when the CPU type is 
host
 or 
max
. The property
  only applies for x86_64 vCPUs; it is silently ignored on other
  architectures.
NUMA
You can also optionally emulate a 
NUMA
[
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Non-uniform_memory_access
]
 architecture
in your VMs. The basics of the NUMA architecture mean that instead of having a
global memory pool available to all your cores, the memory is spread into local
banks close to each socket.
This can bring speed improvements as the memory bus is not a bottleneck
anymore. If your system has a NUMA architecture 
[if the command
numactl --hardware | grep available
 returns more than one node, then your host
system has a NUMA architecture]
 we recommend to activate the option, as this
will allow proper distribution of the VM resources on the host system.
This option is also required to hot-plug cores or RAM in a VM.
If the NUMA option is used, it is recommended to set the number of sockets to
the number of nodes of the host system.
vCPU hot-plug
Modern operating systems introduced the capability to hot-plug and, to a
certain extent, hot-unplug CPUs in a running system. Virtualization allows us
to avoid a lot of the (physical) problems real hardware can cause in such
scenarios.
Still, this is a rather new and complicated feature, so its use should be
restricted to cases where its absolutely needed. Most of the functionality can
be replicated with other, well tested and less complicated, features, see
Resource Limits
.
In Proxmox VE the maximal number of plugged CPUs is always 
cores * sockets
.
To start a VM with less than this total core count of CPUs you may use the
vcpus
 setting, it denotes how many vCPUs should be plugged in at VM start.
Currently this feature is only supported on Linux, a kernel newer than 3.10 is
needed, a kernel newer than 4.7 is recommended.
You can use a udev rule as follow to automatically set new CPUs as online in
the guest:
SUBSYSTEM=="cpu", ACTION=="add", TEST=="online", ATTR{online}=="0", ATTR{online}="1"
Save this under /etc/udev/rules.d/ as a file ending in 
.rules
.
Note: CPU hot-remove is machine dependent and requires guest cooperation.  The
deletion command does not guarantee CPU removal to actually happen, typically
it’s a request forwarded to guest OS using target dependent mechanism, such as
ACPI on x86/amd64.
Memory
For each VM you have the option to set a fixed size memory or asking
Proxmox VE to dynamically allocate memory based on the current RAM usage of the
host.
Fixed Memory Allocation
When setting memory and minimum memory to the same amount
Proxmox VE will simply allocate what you specify to your VM.
Even when using a fixed memory size, the ballooning device gets added to the
VM, because it delivers useful information such as how much memory the guest
really uses.
In general, you should leave 
ballooning
 enabled, but if you want to disable
it (like for debugging purposes), simply uncheck 
Ballooning Device
 or set
balloon: 0
in the configuration.
Automatic Memory Allocation
When setting the minimum memory lower than memory, Proxmox VE will make sure that
the minimum amount you specified is always available to the VM, and if RAM
usage on the host is below a certain target percentage, will dynamically add
memory to the guest up to the maximum memory specified. The target percentage
defaults to 80% and can be configured 
in the node options
. 
When the host is running low on RAM, the VM will then release some memory
back to the host, swapping running processes if needed and starting the oom
killer in last resort. The passing around of memory between host and guest is
done via a special 
balloon
 kernel driver running inside the guest, which will
grab or release memory pages from the host.
[A good explanation of the inner workings of the balloon driver can be found here 
https://rwmj.wordpress.com/2010/07/17/virtio-balloon/
]
When multiple VMs use the autoallocate facility, it is possible to set a
Shares
 coefficient which indicates the relative amount of the free host memory
that each VM should take. Suppose for instance you have four VMs, three of them
running an HTTP server and the last one is a database server.
The host is configured to target 80% RAM usage. To cache more
database blocks in the database server RAM, you would like to prioritize the
database VM when spare RAM is available. For this you assign a Shares property
of 3000 to the database VM, leaving the other VMs to the Shares default setting
of 1000. The host server has 32GB of RAM, and is currently using 16GB, leaving 32
* 80/100 - 16 = 9GB RAM to be allocated to the VMs on top of their configured
minimum memory amount. The database VM will benefit from 9 * 3000 / (3000
+ 1000 + 1000 + 1000) = 4.5 GB extra RAM and each HTTP server from 1.5 GB.
All Linux distributions released after 2010 have the balloon kernel driver
included. For Windows OSes, the balloon driver needs to be added manually and can
incur a slowdown of the guest, so we don’t recommend using it on critical
systems.
When allocating RAM to your VMs, a good rule of thumb is always to leave 1GB
of RAM available to the host.
Memory Encryption
AMD SEV
SEV (Secure Encrypted Virtualization) enables memory encryption per VM using
AES-128 encryption and the AMD Secure Processor.
SEV-ES (Secure Encrypted Virtualization - Encrypted State) in addition encrypts
all CPU register contents, to prevent leakage of information to the hypervisor.
SEV-SNP (Secure Encrypted Virtualization - Secure Nested Paging) also attempts
to prevent software-based integrity attacks. See the
AMD SEV SNP white paper
 for more information.
Host Requirements:
AMD EPYC CPU
SEV-ES is only supported on AMD EPYC 7002 series and newer EPYC CPUs
SEV-SNP is only supported on AMD EPYC 7003 series and newer EPYC CPUs
SEV-SNP requires host kernel version 6.11 or higher.
configure AMD memory encryption in the BIOS settings of the host machine
add "kvm_amd.sev=1" to kernel parameters if not enabled by default
add "mem_encrypt=on" to kernel parameters if you want to encrypt memory on the
host (SME) see 
https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/x86/amd-memory-encryption.txt
maybe increase SWIOTLB see 
https://github.com/AMDESE/AMDSEV#faq-4
To check if SEV is enabled on the host search for 
sev
 in dmesg and print out
the SEV kernel parameter of kvm_amd:
# dmesg | grep -i sev
[...] ccp 0000:45:00.1: sev enabled
[...] ccp 0000:45:00.1: SEV API: <buildversion>
[...] SEV supported: <number> ASIDs
[...] SEV-ES supported: <number> ASIDs
# cat /sys/module/kvm_amd/parameters/sev
Y
Guest Requirements:
edk2-OVMF
advisable to use Q35
The guest operating system must contain SEV-support.
Limitations:
Because the memory is encrypted the memory usage on host is always wrong.
Operations that involve saving or restoring memory like snapshots & live
migration do not work yet or are
attackable
.
PCI passthrough is not supported.
SEV-ES & SEV-SNP are very experimental.
EFI disks are not supported with SEV-SNP.
With SEV-SNP, the 
reboot
 command inside a VM simply shuts down the VM.
Example Configuration (SEV):
# qm set <vmid> -amd-sev type=std,no-debug=1,no-key-sharing=1,kernel-hashes=1
The 
type
 defines the encryption technology ("type=" is not necessary).
Available options are std, es & snp.
The QEMU 
policy
 parameter gets calculated with the 
no-debug
 and
no-key-sharing
 parameters. These parameters correspond to policy-bit 0 and 1.
If 
type
 is 
es
 the policy-bit 2 is set to 1 so that SEV-ES is enabled.
Policy-bit 3 (nosend) is always set to 1 to prevent migration-attacks. For more
information on how to calculate the policy see:
AMD SEV API Specification Chapter 3
The 
kernel-hashes
 option is off per default for backward compatibility with
older OVMF images and guests that do not measure the kernel/initrd.
See 
https://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/qemu-devel/2021-11/msg02598.html
Check if SEV is working in the VM
Method 1 - dmesg:
Output should look like this.
# dmesg | grep -i sev
AMD Memory Encryption Features active: SEV
Method 2 - MSR 0xc0010131 (MSR_AMD64_SEV):
Output should be 1.
# apt install msr-tools
# modprobe msr
# rdmsr -a 0xc0010131
1
Example Configuration (SEV-SNP):
# qm set <vmid> -amd-sev type=snp,allow-smt=1,no-debug=1,kernel-hashes=1
The 
allow-smt
 policy-bit is set by default. If you disable it by setting
allow-smt
 to 
0
, SMT must be disabled on the host in order for the VM to run.
Check if SEV-SNP is working in the VM
# dmesg | grep -i snp
Memory Encryption Features active: AMD SEV SEV-ES SEV-SNP
SEV: Using SNP CPUID table, 29 entries present.
SEV: SNP guest platform device initialized.
Links:
https://developer.amd.com/sev/
https://github.com/AMDESE/AMDSEV
https://www.qemu.org/docs/master/system/i386/amd-memory-encryption.html
https://www.amd.com/system/files/TechDocs/55766_SEV-KM_API_Specification.pdf
https://documentation.suse.com/sles/15-SP1/html/SLES-amd-sev/index.html
SEV Secure Nested Paging Firmware ABI Specification
Network Device
Each VM can have many 
Network interface controllers
 (NIC), of four different
types:
Intel E1000
 is the default, and emulates an Intel Gigabit network card.
the 
VirtIO
 paravirtualized NIC should be used if you aim for maximum
performance. Like all VirtIO devices, the guest OS should have the proper driver
installed.
the 
Realtek 8139
 emulates an older 100 MB/s network card, and should
only be used when emulating older operating systems ( released before 2002 )
the 
vmxnet3
 is another paravirtualized device, which should only be used
when importing a VM from another hypervisor.
Proxmox VE will generate for each NIC a random 
MAC address
, so that your VM is
addressable on Ethernet networks.
The NIC you added to the VM can follow one of two different models:
in the default 
Bridged mode
 each virtual NIC is backed on the host by a
tap device
, ( a software loopback device simulating an Ethernet NIC ). This
tap device is added to a bridge, by default vmbr0 in Proxmox VE. In this mode, VMs
have direct access to the Ethernet LAN on which the host is located.
in the alternative 
NAT mode
, each virtual NIC will only communicate with
the QEMU user networking stack, where a built-in router and DHCP server can
provide network access. This built-in DHCP will serve addresses in the private
10.0.2.0/24 range. The NAT mode is much slower than the bridged mode, and
should only be used for testing. This mode is only available via CLI or the API,
but not via the web UI.
You can also skip adding a network device when creating a VM by selecting 
No
network device
.
You can overwrite the 
MTU
 setting for each VM network device manually. Leaving
the field empty or setting 
mtu=1
 will inherit the MTU from the underlying
bridge. This option is only available for 
VirtIO
 network devices.
Multiqueue
If you are using the VirtIO driver, you can optionally activate the
Multiqueue
 option. This option allows the guest OS to process networking
packets using multiple virtual CPUs, providing an increase in the total number
of packets transferred.
When using the VirtIO driver with Proxmox VE, each NIC network queue is passed to the
host kernel, where the queue will be processed by a kernel thread spawned by the
vhost driver. With this option activated, it is possible to pass 
multiple
network queues to the host kernel for each NIC.
When using Multiqueue, it is recommended to set it to a value equal to the
number of vCPUs of your guest. Remember that the number of vCPUs is the number
of sockets times the number of cores configured for the VM. You also need to set
the number of multi-purpose channels on each VirtIO NIC in the VM with this
ethtool command:
ethtool -L ens1 combined X
where X is the number of the number of vCPUs of the VM.
To configure a Windows guest for Multiqueue install the
Redhat VirtIO Ethernet
Adapter drivers
, then adapt the NIC’s configuration as follows. Open the
device manager, right click the NIC under "Network adapters", and select
"Properties". Then open the "Advanced" tab and select "Receive Side Scaling"
from the list on the left. Make sure it is set to "Enabled". Next, navigate to
"Maximum number of RSS Queues" in the list and set it to the number of vCPUs of
your VM. Once you verified that the settings are correct, click "OK" to confirm
them.
You should note that setting the Multiqueue parameter to a value greater
than one will increase the CPU load on the host and guest systems as the
traffic increases. We recommend to set this option only when the VM has to
process a great number of incoming connections, such as when the VM is running
as a router, reverse proxy or a busy HTTP server doing long polling.
Display
QEMU can virtualize a few types of VGA hardware. Some examples are:
std
, the default, emulates a card with Bochs VBE extensions.
cirrus
, this was once the default, it emulates a very old hardware module
with all its problems. This display type should only be used if really
necessary 
[
https://www.kraxel.org/blog/2014/10/qemu-using-cirrus-considered-harmful/
qemu: using cirrus considered harmful]
, for example, if using Windows XP or
earlier
vmware
, is a VMWare SVGA-II compatible adapter.
qxl
, is the QXL paravirtualized graphics card. Selecting this also
enables 
SPICE
 (a remote viewer protocol) for the
VM.
virtio-gl
, often named VirGL is a virtual 3D GPU for use inside VMs that
  can offload workloads to the host GPU without requiring special (expensive)
  models and drivers and neither binding the host GPU completely, allowing
  reuse between multiple guests and or the host.
VirGL support needs some extra libraries that aren’t installed by
default due to being relatively big and also not available as open source for
all GPU models/vendors. For most setups you’ll just need to do:
apt install libgl1 libegl1
You can edit the amount of memory given to the virtual GPU, by setting
the 
memory
 option. This can enable higher resolutions inside the VM,
especially with SPICE/QXL.
As the memory is reserved by display device, selecting Multi-Monitor mode
for SPICE (such as 
qxl2
 for dual monitors) has some implications:
Windows needs a device for each monitor, so if your 
ostype
 is some
version of Windows, Proxmox VE gives the VM an extra device per monitor.
Each device gets the specified amount of memory.
Linux VMs, can always enable more virtual monitors, but selecting
a Multi-Monitor mode multiplies the memory given to the device with
the number of monitors.
Selecting 
serialX
 as display 
type
 disables the VGA output, and redirects
the Web Console to the selected serial port. A configured display 
memory
setting will be ignored in that case.
VNC clipboard
You can enable the VNC clipboard by setting 
clipboard
 to 
vnc
.
# qm set <vmid> -vga <displaytype>,clipboard=vnc
In order to use the clipboard feature, you must first install the
SPICE guest tools. On Debian-based distributions, this can be achieved
by installing 
spice-vdagent
. For other Operating Systems search for it
in the official repositories or see: 
https://www.spice-space.org/download.html
Once you have installed the spice guest tools, you can use the VNC clipboard
function (e.g. in the noVNC console panel). However, if you’re using
SPICE, virtio or virgl, you’ll need to choose which clipboard to use.
This is because the default 
SPICE
 clipboard will be replaced by the
VNC
 clipboard, if 
clipboard
 is set to 
vnc
.
In order to enable the VNC clipboard, QEMU is configured to use the
qemu-vdagent device. Live migration support for this device was added with
QEMU version 10.1. VMs running on a QEMU or machine version below 10.1 with an
enabled VNC clipboard cannot be live-migrated.
USB Passthrough
There are two different types of USB passthrough devices:
Host USB passthrough
SPICE USB passthrough
Host USB passthrough works by giving a VM a USB device of the host.
This can either be done via the vendor- and product-id, or
via the host bus and port.
The vendor/product-id looks like this: 
0123:abcd
,
where 
0123
 is the id of the vendor, and 
abcd
 is the id
of the product, meaning two pieces of the same usb device
have the same id.
The bus/port looks like this: 
1-2.3.4
, where 
1
 is the bus
and 
2.3.4
 is the port path. This represents the physical
ports of your host (depending of the internal order of the
usb controllers).
If a device is present in a VM configuration when the VM starts up,
but the device is not present in the host, the VM can boot without problems.
As soon as the device/port is available in the host, it gets passed through.
Using this kind of USB passthrough means that you cannot move
a VM online to another host, since the hardware is only available
on the host the VM is currently residing.
The second type of passthrough is SPICE USB passthrough. If you add one or more
SPICE USB ports to your VM, you can dynamically pass a local USB device from
your SPICE client through to the VM. This can be useful to redirect an input
device or hardware dongle temporarily.
It is also possible to map devices on a cluster level, so that they can be
properly used with HA and hardware changes are detected and non root users
can configure them. See 
Resource Mapping
for details on that.
BIOS and UEFI
In order to properly emulate a computer, QEMU needs to use a firmware.
Which, on common PCs often known as BIOS or (U)EFI, is executed as one of the
first steps when booting a VM. It is responsible for doing basic hardware
initialization and for providing an interface to the firmware and hardware for
the operating system. By default QEMU uses 
SeaBIOS
 for this, which is an
open-source, x86 BIOS implementation. SeaBIOS is a good choice for most
standard setups.
SeaBIOS, and thus 
bios=seabios
, is available for x86 guests only. On
arm64 hosts, virtual machines always boot through UEFI, using the ARM build of
OVMF (AAVMF), so 
bios=ovmf
 is the only supported setting there.
Some operating systems (such as Windows 11) may require use of an UEFI
compatible implementation. In such cases, you must use 
OVMF
 instead,
which is an open-source UEFI implementation. 
[See the OVMF Project 
https://github.com/tianocore/tianocore.github.io/wiki/OVMF
]
There are other scenarios in which the SeaBIOS may not be the ideal firmware to
boot from, for example if you want to do VGA passthrough. 
[Alex
Williamson has a good blog entry about this
https://vfio.blogspot.co.at/2014/08/primary-graphics-assignment-without-vga.html
]
If you want to use OVMF, there are several things to consider:
In order to save things like the 
boot order
, there needs to be an EFI Disk.
This disk will be included in backups and snapshots, and there can only be one.
You can create such a disk with the following command:
# qm set <vmid> -efidisk0 <storage>:1,format=<format>,efitype=4m,pre-enrolled-keys=1
Where 
<storage>
 is the storage where you want to have the disk, and
<format>
 is a format which the storage supports. Alternatively, you can
create such a disk through the web interface with 
Add
 → 
EFI Disk
 in the
hardware section of a VM.
The 
efitype
 option specifies which version of the OVMF firmware should be
used. For new VMs, this should always be 
4m
, as it supports Secure Boot and
has more space allocated to support future development (this is the default in
the GUI).
pre-enroll-keys
 specifies if the efidisk should come pre-loaded with
distribution-specific and Microsoft Standard Secure Boot keys. It also enables
Secure Boot by default (though it can still be disabled in the OVMF menu within
the VM). See also
Secure Boot Certificate Expiration
.
If you want to start using Secure Boot in an existing VM (that still uses
a 
2m
 efidisk), you need to recreate the efidisk. To do so, delete the old one
(
qm set <vmid> -delete efidisk0
) and add a new one as described above. This
will reset any custom configurations you have made in the OVMF menu!
When using OVMF with a virtual display (without VGA passthrough),
you need to set the client resolution in the OVMF menu (which you can reach
with a press of the ESC button during boot), or you have to choose
SPICE as the display type.
When using OVMF with PXE boot, you have to add an 
RNG device
to the VM. For security reasons, the OVMF firmware disables PXE boot for guests
without a random number generator.
Secure Boot Certificate Expiration
The original set of Microsoft certificates from 2011, which Windows and common
Linux distributions use for secure boot, expires in June 2026. Microsoft created
replacement certificates in 2023
[Microsoft support article about the issue
https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/topic/windows-secure-boot-certificate-expiration-and-ca-updates-7ff40d33-95dc-4c3c-8725-a9b95457578e
]
.
The firmware only allows bootloaders signed with certificates present on the EFI
disk. In particular, an EFI disk with only the 2011 certificates will reject
bootloaders signed with the 2023 certificates. The 
ms-cert=2023k
 marker in the
VM configuration for an EFI disk indicates that the new certificates are
enrolled.
If the 
pve-edk2-firmware
 package version is at least 
4.2025.05-1
, newly
created EFI disks contain both the 2011 and 2023 certificates and will have the
ms-cert=2023k
 marker. For EFI disks created before that, you need to enroll
the certificates:
For Windows with BitLocker, run the following command inside PowerShell:
manage-bde -protectors -disable <drive>
For example, 
<drive>
 could be 
C:
. This is required for each drive with
BitLocker before proceeding. Otherwise, you will be prompted for the BitLocker
recovery key on the next boot!
Select the EFI disk in the 
Hardware
 view in the UI and use
Disk Action > Enroll Updated Certificates
. Alternatively, enroll the
certificates via the 
/nodes/{node}/qemu/{vmid}/config
 API endpoint. The
enrollment takes effect when the VM is next started. The
qm enroll-efi-keys <vmid>
CLI command achieves the same, but requires the VM to be shut down.
For further steps on updating secure boot within Windows and signing the
bootloader with the new 2023 certificates, refer to the Microsoft support
articles about
enterprise deployment guidance for CVE-2023-24932
and the
related security update
which needs to be installed first.
The markers 
ms-cert=2023
 and 
ms-cert=2023w
 may indicate partial
enrollment. The VM start task log will warn about this. You should apply the
enrollment procedure for such EFI disks too.
Trusted Platform Module (TPM)
A 
Trusted Platform Module
 is a device which stores secret data - such as
encryption keys - securely and provides tamper-resistance functions for
validating system boot.
Certain operating systems (such as Windows 11) require such a device to be
attached to a machine (be it physical or virtual).
A TPM is added by specifying a 
tpmstate
 volume. This works similar to an
efidisk, in that it cannot be changed (only removed) once created. You can add
one via the following command:
# qm set <vmid> -tpmstate0 <storage>:1,version=<version>
Where 
<storage>
 is the storage you want to put the state on, and 
<version>
is either 
v1.2
 or 
v2.0
. You can also add one via the web interface, by
choosing 
Add
 → 
TPM State
 in the hardware section of a VM.
The 
v2.0
 TPM spec is newer and better supported, so unless you have a specific
implementation that requires a 
v1.2
 TPM, it should be preferred.
Compared to a physical TPM, an emulated one does 
not
 provide any real
security benefits. The point of a TPM is that the data on it cannot be modified
easily, except via commands specified as part of the TPM spec. Since with an
emulated device the data storage happens on a regular volume, it can potentially
be edited by anyone with access to it.
Inter-VM shared memory
You can add an Inter-VM shared memory device (
ivshmem
), which allows one to
share memory between the host and a guest, or also between multiple guests.
To add such a device, you can use 
qm
:
# qm set <vmid> -ivshmem size=32,name=foo
Where the size is in MiB. The file will be located under
/dev/shm/pve-shm-$name
 (the default name is the vmid).
Currently the device will get deleted as soon as any VM using it got
shutdown or stopped. Open connections will still persist, but new connections
to the exact same device cannot be made anymore.
A use case for such a device is the Looking Glass
[Looking Glass: 
https://looking-glass.io/
]
 project, which enables high
performance, low-latency display mirroring between host and guest.
Audio Device
To add an audio device run the following command:
qm set <vmid> -audio0 device=<device>
Supported audio devices are:
ich9-intel-hda
: Intel HD Audio Controller, emulates ICH9
intel-hda
: Intel HD Audio Controller, emulates ICH6
AC97
: Audio Codec '97, useful for older operating systems like Windows XP
There are two backends available:
spice
none
The 
spice
 backend can be used in combination with 
SPICE
 while
the 
none
 backend can be useful if an audio device is needed in the VM for some
software to work. To use the physical audio device of the host use device
passthrough (see 
PCI Passthrough
 and
USB Passthrough
). Remote protocols like Microsoft’s RDP
have options to play sound.
VirtIO RNG
A RNG (Random Number Generator) is a device providing entropy (
randomness
) to
a system. A virtual hardware-RNG can be used to provide such entropy from the
host system to a guest VM. This helps to avoid entropy starvation problems in
the guest (a situation where not enough entropy is available and the system may
slow down or run into problems), especially during the guests boot process.
To add a VirtIO-based emulated RNG, run the following command:
qm set <vmid> -rng0 source=<source>[,max_bytes=X,period=Y]
source
 specifies where entropy is read from on the host and has to be one of
the following:
/dev/urandom
: Non-blocking kernel entropy pool (preferred)
/dev/random
: Blocking kernel pool (not recommended, can lead to entropy
  starvation on the host system)
/dev/hwrng
: To pass through a hardware RNG attached to the host (if multiple
  are available, the one selected in
/sys/devices/virtual/misc/hw_random/rng_current
 will be used)
A limit can be specified via the 
max_bytes
 and 
period
 parameters, they are
read as 
max_bytes
 per 
period
 in milliseconds. However, it does not represent
a linear relationship: 1024B/1000ms would mean that up to 1 KiB of data becomes
available on a 1 second timer, not that 1 KiB is streamed to the guest over the
course of one second. Reducing the 
period
 can thus be used to inject entropy
into the guest at a faster rate.
By default, the limit is set to 1024 bytes per 1000 ms (1 KiB/s). It is
recommended to always use a limiter to avoid guests using too many host
resources. If desired, a value of 
0
 for 
max_bytes
 can be used to disable
all limits.
Virtiofs
Virtiofs is a shared filesystem designed for virtual environments. It allows to
share a directory tree available on the host by mounting it within VMs. It does
not use the network stack and aims to offer similar performance and semantics as
the source filesystem.
To use virtiofs, the 
virtiofsd
 daemon
needs to run in the background. This happens automatically in Proxmox VE when
starting a VM using a virtiofs mount.
Linux VMs with kernel >=5.4 support virtiofs by default
(
virtiofs kernel module
), but some
features require a newer kernel.
To use virtiofs, ensure that virtiofsd is installed on the Proxmox VE host:
apt install virtiofsd
There is a
guide
available on how to utilize virtiofs in Windows VMs.
Known Limitations
If virtiofsd crashes, its mount point will hang in the VM until the VM
  is completely stopped.
virtiofsd not responding may result in a hanging mount in the VM, similar to
  an unreachable NFS.
Memory hotplug does not work in combination with virtiofs (also results in
  hanging access).
Memory related features such as live migration, snapshots, and hibernate are
  not available with virtiofs devices.
Windows cannot understand ACLs in the context of virtiofs. Therefore, do not
  expose ACLs for Windows VMs, otherwise the virtiofs device will not be visible
  within the VM.
Add Mapping for Shared Directories
To add a mapping for a shared directory, you can use the API directly with
pvesh
 as described in the 
Resource Mapping
 section:
pvesh create /cluster/mapping/dir --id dir1 \
    --map node=node1,path=/path/to/share1 \
    --map node=node2,path=/path/to/share2 \
Add virtiofs to a VM
To share a directory using virtiofs, add the parameter 
virtiofs<N>
 (N can be
anything between 0 and 9) to the VM config and use a directory ID (dirid) that
has been configured in the resource mapping. Additionally, you can set the
cache
 option to either 
always
, 
never
, 
metadata
, or 
auto
 (default:
auto
), depending on your requirements. How the different caching modes behave
can be read 
here under the "Caching Modes"
section
.
The 
virtiofsd
 supports ACL and xattr passthrough (can be enabled with the
expose-acl
 and 
expose-xattr
 options), allowing the guest to access ACLs and
xattrs if the underlying host filesystem supports them, but they must also be
compatible with the guest filesystem (for example most Linux filesystems support
ACLs, while Windows filesystems do not).
The 
expose-acl
 option automatically implies 
expose-xattr
, that is, it makes
no difference if you set 
expose-xattr
 to 
0
 if 
expose-acl
 is set to 
1
.
If you want virtiofs to honor the 
O_DIRECT
 flag, you can set the 
direct-io
parameter to 
1
 (default: 
0
). This will degrade performance, but is useful if
applications do their own caching.
qm set <vmid> -virtiofs0 dirid=<dirid>,cache=always,direct-io=1
qm set <vmid> -virtiofs1 <dirid>,cache=never,expose-xattr=1
qm set <vmid> -virtiofs2 <dirid>,expose-acl=1
To temporarily mount virtiofs in a guest VM with the Linux kernel virtiofs
driver, run the following command inside the guest:
mount -t virtiofs <dirid> <mount point>
To have a persistent virtiofs mount, you can create an fstab entry:
<dirid> <mount point> virtiofs rw,relatime 0 0
The dirid associated with the path on the current node is also used as the mount
tag (name used to mount the device on the guest).
For more information on available virtiofsd parameters, see the
GitLab virtiofsd project page
.
Device Boot Order
QEMU can tell the guest which devices it should boot from, and in which order.
This can be specified in the config via the 
boot
 property, for example:
boot: order=scsi0;net0;hostpci0
This way, the guest would first attempt to boot from the disk 
scsi0
, if that
fails, it would go on to attempt network boot from 
net0
, and in case that
fails too, finally attempt to boot from a passed through PCIe device (seen as
disk in case of NVMe, otherwise tries to launch into an option ROM).
On the GUI you can use a drag-and-drop editor to specify the boot order, and use
the checkbox to enable or disable certain devices for booting altogether.
If your guest uses multiple disks to boot the OS or load the bootloader,
all of them must be marked as 
bootable
 (that is, they must have the checkbox
enabled or appear in the list in the config) for the guest to be able to boot.
This is because recent SeaBIOS and OVMF versions only initialize disks if they
are marked 
bootable
.
In any case, even devices not appearing in the list or having the checkmark
disabled will still be available to the guest, once it’s operating system has
booted and initialized them. The 
bootable
 flag only affects the guest BIOS and
bootloader.
Automatic Start and Shutdown of Virtual Machines
After creating your VMs, you probably want them to start automatically
when the host system boots. For this you need to select the option 
Start at
boot
 from the 
Options
 Tab of your VM in the web interface, or set it with
the following command:
# qm set <vmid> -onboot 1
Start and Shutdown Order
In some case you want to be able to fine tune the boot order of your
VMs, for instance if one of your VM is providing firewalling or DHCP
to other guest systems.  For this you can use the following
parameters:
Start/Shutdown order
: Defines the start order priority. For example, set it
to 1 if you want the VM to be the first to be started. (We use the reverse
startup order for shutdown, so a machine with a start order of 1 would be the
last to be shut down). If multiple VMs have the same order defined on a host,
they will additionally be ordered by 
VMID
 in ascending order.
Startup delay
: Defines the interval between this VM start and subsequent
VMs starts. For example, set it to 240 if you want to wait 240 seconds before
starting other VMs.
Shutdown timeout
: Defines the duration in seconds Proxmox VE should wait
for the VM to be offline after issuing a shutdown command. By default this
value is set to 180, which means that Proxmox VE will issue a shutdown request and
wait 180 seconds for the machine to be offline. If the machine is still online
after the timeout it will be stopped forcefully.
VMs managed by the HA stack do not follow the 
start on boot
 and
boot order
 options currently. Those VMs will be skipped by the startup and
shutdown algorithm as the HA manager itself ensures that VMs get started and
stopped.
Please note that machines without a Start/Shutdown order parameter will always
start after those where the parameter is set. Further, this parameter can only
be enforced between virtual machines running on the same host, not
cluster-wide.
If you require a delay between the host boot and the booting of the first VM,
see the section on 
Proxmox VE Node Management
.
QEMU Guest Agent
The QEMU Guest Agent is a service which runs inside the VM, providing a
communication channel between the host and the guest. It is used to exchange
information and allows the host to issue commands to the guest.
For example, the IP addresses in the VM summary panel are fetched via the guest
agent.
Or when starting a backup, the guest is told via the guest agent to sync
outstanding writes via the 
guest-fsfreeze-freeze
 and 
guest-fsfreeze-thaw
commands.
For the guest agent to work properly the following steps must be taken:
install the agent in the guest and make sure it is running
enable the communication via the agent in Proxmox VE
Install Guest Agent
For most Linux distributions, the guest agent is available. The package is
usually named 
qemu-guest-agent
.
For Windows, it can be installed from the
Fedora
VirtIO driver ISO
.
Enable Guest Agent Communication
Communication from Proxmox VE with the guest agent can be enabled in the VM’s
Options
 panel. A fresh start of the VM is necessary for the changes to take
effect.
Automatic TRIM Using QGA
It is possible to enable the 
Run guest-trim
 option. With this enabled,
Proxmox VE will issue a trim command to the guest after the following
operations that have the potential to write out zeros to the storage:
moving a disk to another storage
live migrating a VM to another node with local storage
On a thin provisioned storage, this can help to free up unused space.
There is a caveat with ext4 on Linux, because it uses an in-memory
optimization to avoid issuing duplicate TRIM requests. Since the guest doesn’t
know about the change in the underlying storage, only the first guest-trim will
run as expected. Subsequent ones, until the next reboot, will only consider
parts of the filesystem that changed since then.
Filesystem Freeze & Thaw
By default, if the QEMU Guest Agent is enabled in the guest’s config and if the
agent is available inside of the guest, then the virtual machine’s filesystems
are synced via the 
guest-fsfreeze-freeze
 QEMU Guest Agent command when certain
operations are performed. This is done to provide data consistency.
See the
QEMU Guest Agent Protocol Reference
for more details.
A freeze will be issued for any of the following operations on a VM:
Performing a backup in snapshot mode
Creating a clone of a VM while it is running
Replicating a VM while it is running
Taking a snapshot without RAM of a running VM
Importing a disk image from a running guest will issue a freeze for that
  running guest
On Windows guests, some applications might handle consistent backups themselves
by hooking into the Windows VSS (Volume Shadow Copy Service) layer, a freeze
then might interfere with that. For example, it has been observed that calling
guest-fsfreeze-freeze
 with some SQL Servers triggers VSS to call the SQL
Writer VSS module in a mode that breaks the SQL Server backup chain for
differential backups.
There are two options on how to handle such a situation.
Configure the QEMU Guest Agent to use a different VSS variant that does not
interfere with other VSS users. The 
Proxmox VE wiki
has more details.
Alternatively, you can configure Proxmox VE to not issue a freeze-and-thaw cycle
by disabling the 
freeze-fs
 guest agent option. This can also be done in the
GUI: open the 
Options
 panel of the virtual machine, then the 
QEMU Guest
Agent
 dialog, and disable the 
Freeze/thaw guest filesystems during certain
operations for consistency
 option.
Disabling this option can potentially lead to backups with
inconsistent filesystems. Therefore, adapting the QEMU Guest Agent
configuration in the guest is the preferred option.
Troubleshooting
VM does not shut down
Make sure the guest agent is installed and running.
Once the guest agent is enabled, Proxmox VE will send power commands like
shutdown
 via the guest agent. If the guest agent is not running, commands
cannot get executed properly and the shutdown command will run into a timeout.
SPICE Enhancements
SPICE Enhancements are optional features that can improve the remote viewer
experience.
To enable them via the GUI go to the 
Options
 panel of the virtual machine. Run
the following command to enable them via the CLI:
qm set <vmid> -spice_enhancements foldersharing=1,videostreaming=all
To use these features the 
Display
 of the virtual machine
must be set to SPICE (qxl).
Folder Sharing
Share a local folder with the guest. The 
spice-webdavd
 daemon needs to be
installed in the guest. It makes the shared folder available through a local
WebDAV server located at 
http://localhost:9843
.
For Windows guests the installer for the 
Spice WebDAV daemon
 can be downloaded
from the
official SPICE website
.
Most Linux distributions have a package called 
spice-webdavd
 that can be
installed.
To share a folder in Virt-Viewer (Remote Viewer) go to 
File → Preferences
.
Select the folder to share and then enable the checkbox.
Folder sharing currently only works in the Linux version of Virt-Viewer.
Experimental! Currently this feature does not work reliably.
Video Streaming
Fast refreshing areas are encoded into a video stream. Two options exist:
all
: Any fast refreshing area will be encoded into a video stream.
filter
: Additional filters are used to decide if video streaming should be
  used (currently only small window surfaces are skipped).
A general recommendation if video streaming should be enabled and which option
to choose from cannot be given. Your mileage may vary depending on the specific
circumstances.
Troubleshooting
Shared folder does not show up
Make sure the WebDAV service is enabled and running in the guest. On Windows it
is called 
Spice webdav proxy
. In Linux the name is 
spice-webdavd
 but can be
different depending on the distribution.
If the service is running, check the WebDAV server by opening
http://localhost:9843
 in a browser in the guest.
It can help to restart the SPICE session.
Migration
If you have a cluster, you can migrate your VM to another host with
# qm migrate <vmid> <target>
There are generally two mechanisms for this
Online Migration (aka Live Migration)
Offline Migration
Online Migration
If your VM is running and no locally bound resources are configured (such as
devices that are passed through), you can initiate a live migration with the 
--online
flag in the 
qm migration
 command evocation. The web interface defaults to
live migration when the VM is running.
Live migration is only possible between hosts of the same CPU
architecture. A running guest’s CPU state cannot be transferred between an x86
and an arm64 host.
How it works
Online migration first starts a new QEMU process on the target host with the
incoming
 flag, which performs only basic initialization with the guest vCPUs
still paused and then waits for the guest memory and device state data streams
of the source Virtual Machine.
All other resources, such as disks, are either shared or got already sent
before runtime state migration of the VMs begins; so only the memory content
and device state remain to be transferred.
Once this connection is established, the source begins asynchronously sending
the memory content to the target. If the guest memory on the source changes,
those sections are marked dirty and another pass is made to send the guest
memory data.
This loop is repeated until the data difference between running source VM
and incoming target VM is small enough to be sent in a few milliseconds,
because then the source VM can be paused completely, without a user or program
noticing the pause, so that the remaining data can be sent to the target, and
then unpause the targets VM’s CPU to make it the new running VM in well under a
second.
Requirements
For Live Migration to work, there are some things required:
The VM has no local resources that cannot be migrated. For example,
  PCI or USB devices that are passed through currently block live-migration.
  Local Disks, on the other hand, can be migrated by sending them to the target
  just fine.
The hosts are located in the same Proxmox VE cluster.
The hosts have a working (and reliable) network connection between them.
The target host must have the same, or higher versions of the
  Proxmox VE packages. Although it can sometimes work the other way around, this
  cannot be guaranteed.
The hosts have CPUs from the same vendor with similar capabilities. Different
  vendor  
might
 work depending on the actual models and VMs CPU type
  configured, but it cannot be guaranteed - so please test before deploying
  such a setup in production.
Conntrack State Migration
Conntrack state migration is considered best-effort only and might not
work, as it heavily depends on the network setup. For example, setups using
source address masquerading (SNAT)
 on the
host will most likely 
not
 work.
Conntrack is a Linux kernel mechanism to enable a stateful firewall by tracking
individual connection. When live migrating running VMs, active in- and/or
outbound connections 
might
 get interrupted as soon as the VM starts running on
the target host, as the new host node does not have the same conntrack entries
and thus the firewall can drop packets.
Conntrack state migration copies all conntrack entries on the host for the
live-migrated VM to the target node and afterwards flushes the migrated entries
from the conntrack table on the source node.
Offline Migration
If you have local resources, you can still migrate your VMs offline as long as
all disk are on storage defined on both hosts.
Migration then copies the disks to the target host over the network, as with
online migration. Note that any hardware passthrough configuration may need to
be adapted to the device location on the target host.
Copies and Clones
VM installation is usually done using an installation media (CD-ROM)
from the operating system vendor. Depending on the OS, this can be a
time consuming task one might want to avoid.
An easy way to deploy many VMs of the same type is to copy an existing
VM. We use the term 
clone
 for such copies, and distinguish between
linked
 and 
full
 clones.
Full Clone
The result of such copy is an independent VM. The
new VM does not share any storage resources with the original.
It is possible to select a 
Target Storage
, so one can use this to
migrate a VM to a totally different storage. You can also change the
disk image 
Format
 if the storage driver supports several formats.
A full clone needs to read and copy all VM image data. This is
usually much slower than creating a linked clone.
Some storage types allows to copy a specific 
Snapshot
, which
defaults to the 
current
 VM data. This also means that the final copy
never includes any additional snapshots from the original VM.
Linked Clone
Modern storage drivers support a way to generate fast linked
clones. Such a clone is a writable copy whose initial contents are the
same as the original data. Creating a linked clone is nearly
instantaneous, and initially consumes no additional space.
They are called 
linked
 because the new image still refers to the
original. Unmodified data blocks are read from the original image, but
modification are written (and afterwards read) from a new
location. This technique is called 
Copy-on-write
.
This requires that the original volume is read-only. With Proxmox VE one
can convert any VM into a read-only 
 Template
). Such
templates can later be used to create linked clones efficiently.
You cannot delete an original template while linked clones
exist.
It is not possible to change the 
Target storage
 for linked clones,
because this is a storage internal feature.
The 
Target node
 option allows you to create the new VM on a
different node. The only restriction is that the VM is on shared
storage, and that storage is also available on the target node.
To avoid resource conflicts, all network interface MAC addresses get
randomized, and we generate a new 
UUID
 for the VM BIOS (smbios1)
setting.
Virtual Machine Templates
One can convert a VM into a Template. Such templates are read-only,
and you can use them to create linked clones.
It is not possible to start templates, because this would modify
the disk images. If you want to change the template, create a linked
clone and modify that.
VM Generation ID
Proxmox VE supports Virtual Machine Generation ID (
vmgenid
) 
[Official
vmgenid
 Specification
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/desktop/hyperv_v2/virtual-machine-generation-identifier
]
for virtual machines.
This can be used by the guest operating system to detect any event resulting
in a time shift event, for example, restoring a backup or a snapshot rollback.
When creating new VMs, a 
vmgenid
 will be automatically generated and saved
in its configuration file.
To create and add a 
vmgenid
 to an already existing VM one can pass the
special value ‘1’ to let Proxmox VE autogenerate one or manually set the 
UUID
[Online GUID generator 
http://guid.one/
]
 by using it as value, for
example:
# qm set VMID -vmgenid 1
# qm set VMID -vmgenid 00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000
The initial addition of a 
vmgenid
 device to an existing VM, may result
in the same effects as a change on snapshot rollback, backup restore, etc., has
as the VM can interpret this as generation change.
In the rare case the 
vmgenid
 mechanism is not wanted one can pass ‘0’ for
its value on VM creation, or retroactively delete the property in the
configuration with:
# qm set VMID -delete vmgenid
The most prominent use case for 
vmgenid
 are newer Microsoft Windows
operating systems, which use it to avoid problems in time sensitive or
replicate services (such as databases or domain controller
[
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/identity/ad-ds/get-started/virtual-dc/virtualized-domain-controller-architecture
]
)
on snapshot rollback, backup restore or a whole VM clone operation.
Importing Virtual Machines
Importing existing virtual machines from foreign hypervisors or other Proxmox VE
clusters can be achieved through various methods, the most common ones are:
Using the native import wizard, which utilizes the 
import
 content type, such
  as provided by the ESXi special storage.
Performing a backup on the source and then restoring on the target. This
  method works best when migrating from another Proxmox VE instance.
using the OVF-specific import command of the 
qm
 command-line tool.
If you import VMs to Proxmox VE from other hypervisors, it’s recommended to
familiarize yourself with the
concepts of Proxmox VE
.
Import Wizard
Proxmox VE provides an integrated VM importer using the storage plugin system for
native integration into the API and web-based user interface. You can use this
to import the VM as a whole, with most of its config mapped to Proxmox VE’s config
model and reduced downtime.
The import wizard was added during the Proxmox VE 8.2 development cycle and is
in tech preview state. While it’s already promising and working stable, it’s
still under active development.
To use the import wizard you have to first set up a new storage for an import
source, you can do so on the web-interface under 
Datacenter → Storage → Add
.
Then you can select the new storage in the resource tree and use the 
Virtual
Guests
 content tab to see all available guests that can be imported.
Select one and use the 
Import
 button (or double-click) to open the import
wizard. You can modify a subset of the available options here and then start the
import. Please note that you can do more advanced modifications after the import
finished.
The ESXi import wizard  has been tested with ESXi versions 6.5 through
8.0. Note that guests using vSAN storage cannot be directly imported directly;
their disks must first be moved to another storage. While it is possible to use
a vCenter as the import source, performance is dramatically degraded (5 to 10
times slower).
For a step-by-step guide and tips for how to adapt the virtual guest to the new
hyper-visor see our
migrate to Proxmox VE
wiki article
.
OVA/OVF Import
To import OVA/OVF files, you first need a File-based storage with the 
import
content type. On this storage, there will be an 
import
 folder where you can
put OVA files or OVF files with the corresponding images in a flat structure.
Alternatively you can use the web UI to upload or download OVA files directly.
You can then use the web UI to select those and use the import wizard to import
the guests.
For OVA files, there is additional space needed to temporarily extract the
image. This needs a file-based storage that has the 
images
 content type
configured. By default the source storage is selected for this, but you can
specify a 
Import Working Storage
 on which the images will be extracted before
importing to the actual target storage.
Since OVA/OVF file structure and content are not always well maintained
or defined, it might be necessary to adapt some guest settings manually. For
example the SCSI controller type is almost never defined in OVA/OVF files, but
the default is unbootable with OVMF (UEFI), so you should select 
Virtio SCSI
or 
VMware PVSCSI
 for these cases.
Import OVF/OVA Through CLI
A VM export from a foreign hypervisor takes usually the form of one or more disk
 images, with a configuration file describing the settings of the VM (RAM,
 number of cores).
The disk images can be in the vmdk format, if the disks come from
VMware or VirtualBox, or qcow2 if the disks come from a KVM hypervisor.
The most popular configuration format for VM exports is the OVF standard, but in
practice interoperation is limited because many settings are not implemented in
the standard itself, and hypervisors export the supplementary information
in non-standard extensions.
Besides the problem of format, importing disk images from other hypervisors
may fail if the emulated hardware changes too much from one hypervisor to
another. Windows VMs are particularly concerned by this, as the OS is very
picky about any changes of hardware. This problem may be solved by
installing the MergeIDE.zip utility available from the Internet before exporting
and choosing a hard disk type of 
IDE
 before booting the imported Windows VM.
Finally there is the question of paravirtualized drivers, which improve the
speed of the emulated system and are specific to the hypervisor.
GNU/Linux and other free Unix OSes have all the necessary drivers installed by
default and you can switch to the paravirtualized drivers right after importing
the VM. For Windows VMs, you need to install the Windows paravirtualized
drivers by yourself.
GNU/Linux and other free Unix can usually be imported without hassle. Note
that we cannot guarantee a successful import/export of Windows VMs in all
cases due to the problems above.
Step-by-step example of a Windows OVF import
Microsoft provides
Virtual Machines downloads
 to get started with Windows development.We are going to use one of these
to demonstrate the OVF import feature.
Download the Virtual Machine zip
After getting informed about the user agreement, choose the 
Windows 10
Enterprise (Evaluation - Build)
 for the VMware platform, and download the zip.
Extract the disk image from the zip
Using the 
unzip
 utility or any archiver of your choice, unpack the zip,
and copy via ssh/scp the ovf and vmdk files to your Proxmox VE host.
Import the Virtual Machine
This will create a new virtual machine, using cores, memory and
VM name as read from the OVF manifest, and import the disks to the 
local-lvm
 storage. You have to configure the network manually.
# qm importovf 999 WinDev1709Eval.ovf local-lvm
The VM is ready to be started.
Adding an external disk image to a Virtual Machine
You can also add an existing disk image to a VM, either coming from a
foreign hypervisor, or one that you created yourself.
Suppose you created a Debian/Ubuntu disk image with the 
vmdebootstrap
 tool:
vmdebootstrap --verbose \
 --size 10GiB --serial-console \
 --grub --no-extlinux \
 --package openssh-server \
 --package avahi-daemon \
 --package qemu-guest-agent \
 --hostname vm600 --enable-dhcp \
 --customize=./copy_pub_ssh.sh \
 --sparse --image vm600.raw
You can now create a new target VM, importing the image to the storage 
pvedir
and attaching it to the VM’s SCSI controller:
# qm create 600 --net0 virtio,bridge=vmbr0 --name vm600 --serial0 socket \
   --boot order=scsi0 --scsihw virtio-scsi-pci --ostype l26 \
   --scsi0 pvedir:0,import-from=/path/to/dir/vm600.raw
The VM is ready to be started.
Cloud-Init Support
Cloud-Init
 is the de facto
multi-distribution package that handles early initialization of a
virtual machine instance. Using Cloud-Init, configuration of network
devices and ssh keys on the hypervisor side is possible. When the VM
starts for the first time, the Cloud-Init software inside the VM will
apply those settings.
Many Linux distributions provide ready-to-use Cloud-Init images, mostly
designed for 
OpenStack
. These images will also work with Proxmox VE. While
it may seem convenient to get such ready-to-use images, we usually
recommended to prepare the images by yourself. The advantage is that you
will know exactly what you have installed, and this helps you later to
easily customize the image for your needs.
Once you have created such a Cloud-Init image we recommend to convert it
into a VM template. From a VM template you can quickly create linked
clones, so this is a fast method to roll out new VM instances. You just
need to configure the network (and maybe the ssh keys) before you start
the new VM.
We recommend using SSH key-based authentication to login to the VMs
provisioned by Cloud-Init. It is also possible to set a password, but
this is not as safe as using SSH key-based authentication because Proxmox VE
needs to store an encrypted version of that password inside the
Cloud-Init data.
Proxmox VE generates an ISO image to pass the Cloud-Init data to the VM. For
that purpose, all Cloud-Init VMs need to have an assigned CD-ROM drive.
Usually, a serial console should be added and used as a display. Many Cloud-Init
images rely on this, it is a requirement for OpenStack. However, other images
might have problems with this configuration. Switch back to the default display
configuration if using a serial console doesn’t work.
Preparing Cloud-Init Templates
The first step is to prepare your VM. Basically you can use any VM.
Simply install the Cloud-Init packages 
inside the VM
 that you want to
prepare. On Debian/Ubuntu based systems this is as simple as:
apt-get install cloud-init
This command is 
not
 intended to be executed on the Proxmox VE host, but
only inside the VM.
Already many distributions provide ready-to-use Cloud-Init images (provided
as 
.qcow2
 files), so alternatively you can simply download and
import such images. For the following example, we will use the cloud
image provided by Ubuntu at 
https://cloud-images.ubuntu.com
.
# download the image
wget https://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/bionic/current/bionic-server-cloudimg-amd64.img
# create a new VM with VirtIO SCSI controller
qm create 9000 --memory 2048 --net0 virtio,bridge=vmbr0 --scsihw virtio-scsi-pci
# import the downloaded disk to the local-lvm storage, attaching it as a SCSI drive
qm set 9000 --scsi0 local-lvm:0,import-from=/path/to/bionic-server-cloudimg-amd64.img
Ubuntu Cloud-Init images require the 
virtio-scsi-pci
controller type for SCSI drives.
Add Cloud-Init CD-ROM drive
The next step is to configure a CD-ROM drive, which will be used to pass
the Cloud-Init data to the VM.
qm set 9000 --ide2 local-lvm:cloudinit
To be able to boot directly from the Cloud-Init image, set the 
boot
 parameter
to 
order=scsi0
 to restrict BIOS to boot from this disk only. This will speed
up booting, because VM BIOS skips the testing for a bootable CD-ROM.
qm set 9000 --boot order=scsi0
For many Cloud-Init images, it is required to configure a serial console and use
it as a display. If the configuration doesn’t work for a given image however,
switch back to the default display instead.
qm set 9000 --serial0 socket --vga serial0
In a last step, it is helpful to convert the VM into a template. From
this template you can then quickly create linked clones.
The deployment from VM templates is much faster than creating a full
clone (copy).
qm template 9000
Deploying Cloud-Init Templates
You can easily deploy such a template by cloning:
qm clone 9000 123 --name ubuntu2
Then configure the SSH public key used for authentication, and configure
the IP setup:
qm set 123 --sshkey ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub
qm set 123 --ipconfig0 ip=10.0.10.123/24,gw=10.0.10.1
You can also configure all the Cloud-Init options using a single command
only. We have simply split the above example to separate the
commands for reducing the line length. Also make sure to adopt the IP
setup for your specific environment.
Custom Cloud-Init Configuration
The Cloud-Init integration also allows custom config files to be used instead
of the automatically generated configs. This is done via the 
cicustom
option on the command line:
qm set 9000 --cicustom "user=<volume>,network=<volume>,meta=<volume>"
The custom config files have to be on a storage that supports snippets and have
to be available on all nodes the VM is going to be migrated to. Otherwise the
VM won’t be able to start.
For example:
qm set 9000 --cicustom "user=local:snippets/userconfig.yaml"
There are three kinds of configs for Cloud-Init. The first one is the 
user
config as seen in the example above. The second is the 
network
 config and
the third the 
meta
 config. They can all be specified together or mixed
and matched however needed.
The automatically generated config will be used for any that don’t have a
custom config file specified.
The generated config can be dumped to serve as a base for custom configs:
qm cloudinit dump 9000 user
The same command exists for 
network
 and 
meta
.
Cloud-Init on Windows
There is a reimplementation of Cloud-Init available for Windows called
cloudbase-init
. Not every feature of Cloud-Init is
available with Cloudbase-Init, and some features differ compared to Cloud-Init.
Cloudbase-Init requires both 
ostype
 set to any Windows version and the
citype
 set to 
configdrive2
, which is the default with any Windows
ostype
.
There are no ready-made cloud images for Windows available for free. Using
Cloudbase-Init requires manually installing and configuring a Windows guest.
Preparing Cloudbase-Init Templates
The first step is to install Windows in a VM. Download and install
Cloudbase-Init in the guest. It may be necessary to install the Beta version.
Don’t run Sysprep at the end of the installation. Instead configure
Cloudbase-Init first.
A few common options to set would be:
username
: This sets the username of the administrator
groups
: This allows one to add the user to the 
Administrators
 group
inject_user_password
: Set this to 
true
 to allow setting the password
in the VM config
first_logon_behaviour
: Set this to 
no
 to not require a new password on
login
rename_admin_user
: Set this to 
true
 to allow renaming the default
Administrator
 user to the username specified with 
username
metadata_services
: Set this to
cloudbaseinit.metadata.services.configdrive.ConfigDriveService
 for
Cloudbase-Init to first check this service. Otherwise it may take a few minutes
for Cloudbase-Init to configure the system after boot.
Some plugins, for example the SetHostnamePlugin, require reboots and will do
so automatically. To disable automatic reboots by Cloudbase-Init, you can set
allow_reboot
 to 
false
.
A full set of configuration options can be found in the
official
cloudbase-init documentation
.
It can make sense to make a snapshot after configuring in case some parts of
the config still need adjustments.
After configuring Cloudbase-Init you can start creating the template. Shutdown
the Windows guest, add a Cloud-Init disk and make it into a template.
qm set 9000 --ide2 local-lvm:cloudinit
qm template 9000
Clone the template into a new VM:
qm clone 9000 123 --name windows123
Then set the password, network config and SSH key:
qm set 123 --cipassword <password>
qm set 123 --ipconfig0 ip=10.0.10.123/24,gw=10.0.10.1
qm set 123 --sshkey ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub
Make sure that the 
ostype
 is set to any Windows version before setting the
password. Otherwise the password will be encrypted and Cloudbase-Init will use
the encrypted password as plaintext password.
When everything is set, start the cloned guest. On the first boot the login
won’t work and it will reboot automatically for the changed hostname.
After the reboot the new password should be set and login should work.
Cloudbase-Init and Sysprep
Sysprep is a feature to reset the configuration of Windows and provide a 
new
system. This can be used in conjunction with Cloudbase-Init to create a clean
template.
When using Sysprep there are 2 configuration files that need to be adapted.
The first one is the normal configuration file, the second one is the one
ending in 
-unattend.conf
.
Cloudbase-Init runs in 2 steps, first the Sysprep step using the
-unattend.conf
 and then the regular step using the primary config file.
For 
Windows Server
 running Sysprep with the provided 
Unattend.xml
 file
should work out of the box. Normal Windows versions however require additional
steps:
Open a PowerShell instance
Enable the Administrator user:
net user Administrator /active:yes`
Install Cloudbase-Init using the Administrator user
Modify 
Unattend.xml
 to include the command to enable the Administrator user
on the first boot after sysprepping:
<RunSynchronousCommand wcm:action="add">
  <Path>net user administrator /active:yes</Path>
  <Order>1</Order>
  <Description>Enable Administrator User</Description>
</RunSynchronousCommand>
Make sure the 
<Order>
 does not conflict with other synchronous commands.
Modify 
<Order>
 of the Cloudbase-Init command to run after this one by
increasing the number to a higher value: 
<Order>2</Order>
(Windows 11 only) Remove the conflicting Microsoft.OneDriveSync package:
Get-AppxPackage -AllUsers Microsoft.OneDriveSync | Remove-AppxPackage -AllUsers
cd
 into the Cloudbase-Init config directory:
cd 'C:\Program Files\Cloudbase Solutions\Cloudbase-Init\conf'
(optional) Create a snapshot of the VM before Sysprep in case of a
misconfiguration
Run Sysprep:
C:\Windows\System32\Sysprep\sysprep.exe /generalize /oobe /unattend:Unattend.xml
After following the above steps the VM should be in shut down state due to
the Sysprep. Now you can make it into a template, clone it and configure
it as needed.
Cloud-Init specific Options
cicustom
: 
[meta=<volume>] [,network=<volume>] [,user=<volume>] [,vendor=<volume>]
Specify custom files to replace the automatically generated ones at start.
meta
=
<volume>
Specify a custom file containing all meta data passed to the VM via cloud-init. This is provider specific meaning configdrive2 and nocloud differ.
network
=
<volume>
To pass a custom file containing all network data to the VM via cloud-init.
user
=
<volume>
To pass a custom file containing all user data to the VM via cloud-init.
vendor
=
<volume>
To pass a custom file containing all vendor data to the VM via cloud-init.
cipassword
: 
<string>
Password to assign the user. Using this is generally not recommended. Use ssh keys instead. Also note that older cloud-init versions do not support hashed passwords.
citype
: 
<configdrive2 | nocloud | opennebula>
Specifies the cloud-init configuration format. The default depends on the configured operating system type (
ostype
. We use the 
nocloud
 format for Linux, and 
configdrive2
 for windows.
ciupgrade
: 
<boolean>
 (
default =
1
)
do an automatic package upgrade after the first boot.
ciuser
: 
<string>
User name to change ssh keys and password for instead of the image’s configured default user.
ipconfig[n]
: 
[gw=<GatewayIPv4>] [,gw6=<GatewayIPv6>] [,ip=<IPv4Format/CIDR>] [,ip6=<IPv6Format/CIDR>]
Specify IP addresses and gateways for the corresponding interface.
IP addresses use CIDR notation, gateways are optional but need an IP of the same type specified.
The special string 
dhcp
 can be used for IP addresses to use DHCP, in which case no explicit
gateway should be provided.
For IPv6 the special string 
auto
 can be used to use stateless autoconfiguration. This requires
cloud-init 19.4 or newer.
If cloud-init is enabled and neither an IPv4 nor an IPv6 address is specified, it defaults to using
dhcp on IPv4.
gw
=
<GatewayIPv4>
Default gateway for IPv4 traffic.
Requires option(s): 
ip
gw6
=
<GatewayIPv6>
Default gateway for IPv6 traffic.
Requires option(s): 
ip6
ip
=
<IPv4Format/CIDR>
 (
default =
dhcp
)
IPv4 address in CIDR format.
ip6
=
<IPv6Format/CIDR>
 (
default =
dhcp
)
IPv6 address in CIDR format.
nameserver
: 
<string>
Sets DNS server IP address for a container. Create will automatically use the setting from the host if neither searchdomain nor nameserver are set.
searchdomain
: 
<string>
Sets DNS search domains for a container. Create will automatically use the setting from the host if neither searchdomain nor nameserver are set.
sshkeys
: 
<string>
Setup public SSH keys (one key per line, OpenSSH format).
PCI(e) Passthrough
PCI(e) passthrough is a mechanism to give a virtual machine control over
a PCI device from the host. This can have some advantages over using
virtualized hardware, for example lower latency, higher performance, or more
features (e.g., offloading).
But, if you pass through a device to a virtual machine, you cannot use that
device anymore on the host or in any other VM.
Note that, while PCI passthrough is available for i440fx and q35 machines, PCIe
passthrough is only available on q35 machines. This does not mean that
PCIe capable devices that are passed through as PCI devices will only run at
PCI speeds. Passing through devices as PCIe just sets a flag for the guest to
tell it that the device is a  PCIe device instead of a "really fast legacy PCI
device". Some guest applications benefit from this.
General Requirements
Since passthrough is performed on real hardware, it needs to fulfill some
requirements. A brief overview of these requirements is given below, for more
information on specific devices, see
PCI Passthrough Examples
.
Hardware
Your hardware needs to support 
IOMMU
 (
I
/
O
M
emory 
M
anagement
U
nit) interrupt remapping, this includes the CPU and the motherboard.
Generally, Intel systems with VT-d and AMD systems with AMD-Vi support this. On
arm64, the equivalent is the System Memory Management Unit (SMMU), provided by
the supported platforms. But it is not guaranteed that everything will work out
of the box, due to bad hardware implementation and missing or low quality
drivers.
Further, server grade hardware has often better support than consumer grade
hardware, but even then, many modern system can support this.
Please refer to your hardware vendor to check if they support this feature
under Linux for your specific setup.
Determining PCI Card Address
The easiest way is to use the GUI to add a device of type "Host PCI" in the VM’s
hardware tab. Alternatively, you can use the command line.
You can locate your card using
 lspci
Configuration
Once you ensured that your hardware supports passthrough, you will need to do
some configuration to enable PCI(e) passthrough.
IOMMU
You will have to enable IOMMU support in your BIOS/UEFI. Usually the
corresponding setting is called 
IOMMU
 or 
VT-d
, but you should find the exact
option name in the manual of your motherboard.
With AMD CPUs IOMMU is enabled by default. With recent kernels (6.8 or newer),
this is also true for Intel CPUs. On older kernels, it is necessary to enable
it on Intel CPUs via the
kernel command line
 by adding:
 intel_iommu=on
The 
intel_iommu=on
 parameter applies to x86 hosts. On arm64, the SMMU is
enabled through firmware and ACPI, so no such kernel command line parameter is
needed.
IOMMU Passthrough Mode
If your hardware supports IOMMU passthrough mode, enabling this mode might
increase performance.
This is because VMs then bypass the (default) DMA translation normally
performed by the hyper-visor and instead pass DMA requests directly to the
hardware IOMMU. To enable these options, add:
 iommu=pt
to the 
kernel commandline
.
Kernel Modules
You have to make sure the following modules are loaded. This can be achieved by
adding them to ‘
/etc/modules
’.
Mediated devices passthrough
If passing through mediated devices (e.g. vGPUs), the following is not needed.
In these cases, the device will be owned by the appropriate host-driver
directly.
 vfio
 vfio_iommu_type1
 vfio_pci
After changing anything modules related, you need to refresh your
initramfs
. On Proxmox VE this can be done by executing: 
# update-initramfs -u -k all
To check if the modules are being loaded, the output of
# lsmod | grep vfio
should include the four modules from above.
Finish Configuration
Finally reboot to bring the changes into effect and check that it is indeed
enabled.
# dmesg | grep -e DMAR -e IOMMU -e AMD-Vi
should display that 
IOMMU
, 
Directed I/O
 or 
Interrupt Remapping
 is
enabled, depending on hardware and kernel the exact message can vary.
For notes on how to troubleshoot or verify if IOMMU is working as intended, please
see the 
Verifying IOMMU Parameters
section in our wiki.
It is also important that the device(s) you want to pass through
are in a 
separate
IOMMU
 group. This can be checked with a call to the Proxmox VE
API:
# pvesh get /nodes/{nodename}/hardware/pci --pci-class-blacklist ""
It is okay if the device is in an 
IOMMU
 group together with its functions
(e.g. a GPU with the HDMI Audio device) or with its root port or PCI(e) bridge.
PCI(e) slots
Some platforms handle their physical PCI(e) slots differently. So, sometimes
it can help to put the card in a another PCI(e) slot, if you do not get the
desired 
IOMMU
 group separation.
Unsafe interrupts
For some platforms, it may be necessary to allow unsafe interrupts.
For this add  the following line in a file ending with ‘.conf’ file in
/etc/modprobe.d/
:
 options vfio_iommu_type1 allow_unsafe_interrupts=1
Please be aware that this option can make your system unstable.
GPU Passthrough Notes
It is not possible to display the frame buffer of the GPU via NoVNC or SPICE on
the Proxmox VE web interface.
When passing through a whole GPU or a vGPU and graphic output is wanted, one
has to either physically connect a monitor to the card, or configure a remote
desktop software (for example, VNC or RDP) inside the guest.
If you want to use the GPU as a hardware accelerator, for example, for
programs using OpenCL or CUDA, this is not required.
Host Device Passthrough
The most used variant of PCI(e) passthrough is to pass through a whole
PCI(e) card, for example a GPU or a network card.
Host Configuration
Proxmox VE tries to automatically make the PCI(e) device unavailable for the host.
However, if this doesn’t work, there are two things that can be done:
pass the device IDs to the options of the 
vfio-pci
 modules by adding
 options vfio-pci ids=1234:5678,4321:8765
to a .conf file in 
/etc/modprobe.d/
 where 
1234:5678
 and 
4321:8765
 are
the vendor and device IDs obtained by:
# lspci -nn
blacklist the driver on the host completely, ensuring that it is free to bind
for passthrough, with
 blacklist DRIVERNAME
in a .conf file in 
/etc/modprobe.d/
.
To find the drivername, execute
# lspci -k
for example:
# lspci -k | grep -A 3 "VGA"
will output something similar to
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: NVIDIA Corporation GP108 [GeForce GT 1030] (rev a1)
        Subsystem: Micro-Star International Co., Ltd. [MSI] GP108 [GeForce GT 1030]
        Kernel driver in use: <some-module>
        Kernel modules: <some-module>
Now we can blacklist the drivers by writing them into a .conf file:
echo "blacklist <some-module>" >> /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf
For both methods you need to
update the 
initramfs
 again and
reboot after that.
Should this not work, you might need to set a soft dependency to load 
vfio-pci
before loading the GPU modules. This can be done with the 
softdep
 flag, see
also the manpages on 
modprobe.d
 for more information.
For example, if you are using drivers named <some-module>:
# echo "softdep <some-module> pre: vfio-pci" >> /etc/modprobe.d/<some-module>.conf
Verify Configuration
To check if your changes were successful, you can use
# lspci -nnk
and check your device entry. If it says
Kernel driver in use: vfio-pci
or the 
in use
 line is missing entirely, the device is ready to be used for
passthrough.
Mediated devices
For mediated devices this line will differ as the device will be owned as the
host driver directly, not 
vfio-pci
.
VM Configuration
When passing through a GPU, the best compatibility is reached when using
q35
 as machine type, 
OVMF
 (
UEFI
 for VMs) instead of SeaBIOS and PCIe
instead of PCI. Note that if you want to use 
OVMF
 for GPU passthrough, the
GPU needs to have an UEFI capable ROM, otherwise use SeaBIOS instead. To check if
the ROM is UEFI capable, see the
PCI Passthrough Examples
wiki.
Furthermore, using OVMF, disabling vga arbitration may be possible, reducing the
amount of legacy code needed to be run during boot. To disable vga arbitration:
 echo "options vfio-pci ids=<vendor-id>,<device-id> disable_vga=1" > /etc/modprobe.d/vfio.conf
replacing the <vendor-id> and <device-id> with the ones obtained from:
# lspci -nn
PCI devices can be added in the web interface in the hardware section of the VM.
Alternatively, you can use the command line; set the 
hostpciX
 option in the VM
configuration, for example by executing:
# qm set VMID -hostpci0 00:02.0
or by adding a line to the VM configuration file:
 hostpci0: 00:02.0
If your device has multiple functions (e.g., ‘
00:02.0
’ and ‘
00:02.1
’ ),
you can pass them through all together with the shortened syntax ``00:02`
.
This is equivalent with checking the ``All Functions`
 checkbox in the
web interface.
There are some options to which may be necessary, depending on the device
and guest OS:
x-vga=on|off
 marks the PCI(e) device as the primary GPU of the VM.
With this enabled the 
vga
 configuration option will be ignored.
pcie=on|off
 tells Proxmox VE to use a PCIe or PCI port. Some guests/device
combination require PCIe rather than PCI. PCIe is only available for 
q35
machine types.
rombar=on|off
 makes the firmware ROM visible for the guest. Default is on.
Some PCI(e) devices need this disabled.
romfile=<path>
, is an optional path to a ROM file for the device to use.
This is a relative path under 
/usr/share/kvm/
.
Example
An example of PCIe passthrough with a GPU set to primary:
# qm set VMID -hostpci0 02:00,pcie=on,x-vga=on
PCI ID overrides
You can override the PCI vendor ID, device ID, and subsystem IDs that will be
seen by the guest. This is useful if your device is a variant with an ID that
your guest’s drivers don’t recognize, but you want to force those drivers to be
loaded anyway (e.g. if you know your device shares the same chipset as a
supported variant).
The available options are 
vendor-id
, 
device-id
, 
sub-vendor-id
, and
sub-device-id
. You can set any or all of these to override your device’s
default IDs.
For example:
# qm set VMID -hostpci0 02:00,device-id=0x10f6,sub-vendor-id=0x0000
SR-IOV
Another variant for passing through PCI(e) devices is to use the hardware
virtualization features of your devices, if available.
Enabling SR-IOV
To use SR-IOV, platform support is especially important. It may be necessary
to enable this feature in the BIOS/UEFI first, or to use a specific PCI(e) port
for it to work. In doubt, consult the manual of the platform or contact its
vendor.
SR-IOV
 (
S
ingle-
R
oot 
I
nput/
O
utput 
V
irtualization) enables
a single device to provide multiple 
VF
 (
V
irtual 
F
unctions) to the
system. Each of those 
VF
 can be used in a different VM, with full hardware
features and also better performance and lower latency than software
virtualized devices.
Currently, the most common use case for this are NICs (
N
etwork
I
nterface 
C
ard) with SR-IOV support, which can provide multiple VFs per
physical port. This allows using features such as checksum offloading, etc. to
be used inside a VM, reducing the (host) CPU overhead.
Host Configuration
Generally, there are two methods for enabling virtual functions on a device.
sometimes there is an option for the driver module e.g. for some
Intel drivers
 max_vfs=4
which could be put file with 
.conf
 ending under 
/etc/modprobe.d/
.
(Do not forget to update your initramfs after that)
Please refer to your driver module documentation for the exact
parameters and options.
The second, more generic, approach is using the 
sysfs
.
If a device and driver supports this you can change the number of VFs on
the fly. For example, to setup 4 VFs on device 0000:01:00.0 execute:
# echo 4 > /sys/bus/pci/devices/0000:01:00.0/sriov_numvfs
To make this change persistent you can use the ‘sysfsutils` Debian package.
After installation configure it via 
/etc/sysfs.conf
 or a `FILE.conf’ in
/etc/sysfs.d/
.
VM Configuration
After creating VFs, you should see them as separate PCI(e) devices when
outputting them with 
lspci
. Get their ID and pass them through like a
normal PCI(e) device
.
Mediated Devices (vGPU, GVT-g)
Mediated devices are another method to reuse features and performance from
physical hardware for virtualized hardware. These are found most common in
virtualized GPU setups such as Intel’s GVT-g and NVIDIA’s vGPUs used in their
GRID technology.
With this, a physical Card is able to create virtual cards, similar to SR-IOV.
The difference is that mediated devices do not appear as PCI(e) devices in the
host, and are such only suited for using in virtual machines.
Host Configuration
In general your card’s driver must support that feature, otherwise it will
not work. So please refer to your vendor for compatible drivers and how to
configure them.
Intel’s drivers for GVT-g are integrated in the Kernel and should work
with 5th, 6th and 7th generation Intel Core Processors, as well as E3 v4, E3
v5 and E3 v6 Xeon Processors.
To enable it for Intel Graphics, you have to make sure to load the module
kvmgt
 (for example via 
/etc/modules
) and to enable it on the
Kernel commandline
 and add the following parameter:
 i915.enable_gvt=1
After that remember to
update the 
initramfs
,
and reboot your host.
VM Configuration
To use a mediated device, simply specify the 
mdev
 property on a 
hostpciX
VM configuration option.
You can get the supported devices via the 
sysfs
. For example, to list the
supported types for the device 
0000:00:02.0
 you would simply execute:
# ls /sys/bus/pci/devices/0000:00:02.0/mdev_supported_types
Each entry is a directory which contains the following important files:
available_instances
 contains the amount of still available instances of
this type, each 
mdev
 use in a VM reduces this.
description
 contains a short description about the capabilities of the type
create
 is the endpoint to create such a device, Proxmox VE does this
automatically for you, if a 
hostpciX
 option with 
mdev
 is configured.
Example configuration with an 
Intel GVT-g vGPU
 (
Intel Skylake 6700k
):
# qm set VMID -hostpci0 00:02.0,mdev=i915-GVTg_V5_4
With this set, Proxmox VE automatically creates such a device on VM start, and
cleans it up again when the VM stops.
Use in Clusters
It is also possible to map devices on a cluster level, so that they can be
properly used with HA and hardware changes are detected and non root users
can configure them. See 
Resource Mapping
for details on that.
vIOMMU (emulated IOMMU)
vIOMMU is the emulation of a hardware IOMMU within a virtual machine, providing
improved memory access control and security for virtualized I/O devices. Using
the vIOMMU option also allows you to pass through PCI(e) devices to level-2 VMs
in level-1 VMs via
Nested Virtualization
.
To pass through physical PCI(e) devices from the host to nested VMs, follow the
PCI(e) passthrough instructions.
There are currently two vIOMMU implementations available: Intel and VirtIO.
Intel vIOMMU
Intel vIOMMU specific VM requirements:
Whether you are using an Intel or AMD CPU on your host, it is important to set
intel_iommu=on
 in the VMs kernel parameters.
To use Intel vIOMMU you need to set 
q35
 as the machine type.
If all requirements are met, you can add 
viommu=intel
 to the machine parameter
in the configuration of the VM that should be able to pass through PCI devices.
# qm set VMID -machine q35,viommu=intel
QEMU documentation for VT-d
VirtIO vIOMMU
This vIOMMU implementation is more recent and does not have as many limitations
as Intel vIOMMU but is currently less used in production and less documentated.
With VirtIO vIOMMU there is 
no
 need to set any kernel parameters. It is also
not
 necessary to use q35 as the machine type, but it is advisable if you want
to use PCIe.
# qm set VMID -machine q35,viommu=virtio
Blog-Post by Michael Zhao explaining virtio-iommu
Hookscripts
You can add a hook script to VMs with the config property 
hookscript
.
# qm set 100 --hookscript local:snippets/hookscript.pl
It will be called during various phases of the guests lifetime.
For an example and documentation see the example script under
/usr/share/pve-docs/examples/guest-example-hookscript.pl
.
Hibernation
You can suspend a VM to disk with the GUI option 
Hibernate
 or with
# qm suspend ID --todisk
That means that the current content of the memory will be saved onto disk
and the VM gets stopped. On the next start, the memory content will be
loaded and the VM can continue where it was left off.
State storage selection
If no target storage for the memory is given, it will be automatically
chosen, the first of: 
The storage 
vmstatestorage
 from the VM config.
The first shared storage from any VM disk.
The first non-shared storage from any VM disk.
The storage 
local
 as a fallback.
Resource Mapping
When using or referencing local resources (e.g. address of a pci device), using
the raw address or id is sometimes problematic, for example:
when using HA, a different device with the same id or path may exist on the
  target node, and if one is not careful when assigning such guests to HA
  groups, the wrong device could be used, breaking configurations.
changing hardware can change ids and paths, so one would have to check all
  assigned devices and see if the path or id is still correct.
To handle this better, one can define cluster wide resource mappings, such that
a resource has a cluster unique, user selected identifier which can correspond
to different devices on different hosts. With this, HA won’t start a guest with
a wrong device, and hardware changes can be detected.
Creating such a mapping can be done with the Proxmox VE web GUI under 
Datacenter
in the relevant tab in the 
Resource Mappings
 category, or on the cli with
# pvesh create /cluster/mapping/<type> <options>
Where 
<type>
 is the hardware type (currently either 
pci
, 
usb
 or
dir
) and 
<options>
 are the device mappings and other
configuration parameters.
Note that the options must include a map property with all identifying
properties of that hardware, so that it’s possible to verify the hardware did
not change and the correct device is passed through.
For example to add a PCI device as 
device1
 with the path 
0000:01:00.0
 that
has the device id 
0001
 and the vendor id 
0002
 on the node 
node1
, and
0000:02:00.0
 on 
node2
 you can add it with:
# pvesh create /cluster/mapping/pci --id device1 \
 --map node=node1,path=0000:01:00.0,id=0002:0001 \
 --map node=node2,path=0000:02:00.0,id=0002:0001
You must repeat the 
map
 parameter for each node where that device should have
a mapping (note that you can currently only map one USB device per node per
mapping).
Using the GUI makes this much easier, as the correct properties are
automatically picked up and sent to the API.
It’s also possible for PCI devices to provide multiple devices per node with
multiple map properties for the nodes. If such a device is assigned to a guest,
the first free one will be used when the guest is started. The order of the
paths given is also the order in which they are tried, so arbitrary allocation
policies can be implemented.
This is useful for devices with SR-IOV, since some times it is not important
which exact virtual function is passed through.
You can assign such a device to a guest either with the GUI or with
# qm set ID -hostpci0 <name>
for PCI devices, or
# qm set <vmid> -usb0 <name>
for USB devices.
Where 
<vmid>
 is the guests id and 
<name>
 is the chosen name for the created
mapping. All usual options for passing through the devices are allowed, such as
mdev
.
To create mappings 
Mapping.Modify
 on 
/mapping/<type>/<name>
 is necessary
(where 
<type>
 is the device type and 
<name>
 is the name of the mapping).
To use these mappings, 
Mapping.Use
 on 
/mapping/<type>/<name>
 is necessary
(in addition to the normal guest privileges to edit the configuration).
Additional Options
There are additional options when defining a cluster wide resource mapping.
Currently there are the following options:
mdev
 (PCI): This marks the PCI device as being capable of providing
mediated devices
. When this is enabled, you can select a type when
  configuring it on the guest. If multiple PCI devices are selected for the
  mapping, the mediated device will be created on the first one where there are
  any available instances of the selected type.
live-migration-capable
 (PCI): This marks the PCI device as being capable of
  being live migrated between nodes. This requires driver and hardware support.
  Only NVIDIA GPUs with recent kernel are known to support this. Note that live
  migrating passed through devices is an experimental feature and may not work
  or cause issues.
Managing Virtual Machines with 
qm
qm is the tool to manage QEMU/KVM virtual machines on Proxmox VE. You can
create and destroy virtual machines, and control execution
(start/stop/suspend/resume). Besides that, you can use qm to set
parameters in the associated config file. It is also possible to
create and delete virtual disks.
CLI Usage Examples
Using an iso file uploaded on the 
local
 storage, create a VM
with a 4 GB IDE disk on the 
local-lvm
 storage
# qm create 300 -ide0 local-lvm:4 -net0 e1000 -cdrom local:iso/proxmox-mailgateway_2.1.iso
Start the new VM
# qm start 300
Send a shutdown request, then wait until the VM is stopped.
# qm shutdown 300 && qm wait 300
Same as above, but only wait for 40 seconds.
# qm shutdown 300 && qm wait 300 -timeout 40
If the VM does not shut down, force-stop it and overrule any running shutdown
tasks. As stopping VMs may incur data loss, use it with caution.
# qm stop 300 -overrule-shutdown 1
Destroying a VM always removes it from Access Control Lists and it always
removes the firewall configuration of the VM. You have to activate
--purge
, if you want to additionally remove the VM from replication jobs,
backup jobs and HA resource configurations.
Activating purge will also remove the HA resource from any affinity rules
referencing it and will remove rules that have only this one remaining resource.
# qm destroy 300 --purge
Move a disk image to a different storage.
# qm move-disk 300 scsi0 other-storage
Reassign a disk image to a different VM. This will remove the disk 
scsi1
 from
the source VM and attaches it as 
scsi3
 to the target VM. In the background
the disk image is being renamed so that the name matches the new owner.
# qm move-disk 300 scsi1 --target-vmid 400 --target-disk scsi3
Configuration
VM configuration files are stored inside the Proxmox cluster file
system, and can be accessed at 
/etc/pve/qemu-server/<VMID>.conf
.
Like other files stored inside 
/etc/pve/
, they get automatically
replicated to all other cluster nodes.
VMIDs < 100 are reserved for internal purposes, and VMIDs need to be
unique cluster wide.
Example VM Configuration
boot: order=virtio0;net0
cores: 1
sockets: 1
memory: 512
name: webmail
ostype: l26
net0: e1000=EE:D2:28:5F:B6:3E,bridge=vmbr0
virtio0: local:vm-100-disk-1,size=32G
Those configuration files are simple text files, and you can edit them
using a normal text editor (
vi
, 
nano
, …). This is sometimes
useful to do small corrections, but keep in mind that you need to
restart the VM to apply such changes.
For that reason, it is usually better to use the 
qm
 command to
generate and modify those files, or do the whole thing using the GUI.
Our toolkit is smart enough to instantaneously apply most changes to
running VM. This feature is called "hot plug", and there is no
need to restart the VM in that case.
File Format
VM configuration files use a simple colon separated key/value
format. Each line has the following format:
# this is a comment
OPTION: value
Blank lines in those files are ignored, and lines starting with a 
#
character are treated as comments and are also ignored.
Snapshots
When you create a snapshot, 
qm
 stores the configuration at snapshot
time into a separate snapshot section within the same configuration
file. For example, after creating a snapshot called “testsnapshot”,
your configuration file will look like this:
VM configuration with snapshot
memory: 512
swap: 512
parent: testsnaphot
...
[testsnaphot]
memory: 512
swap: 512
snaptime: 1457170803
...
There are a few snapshot related properties like 
parent
 and
snaptime
. The 
parent
 property is used to store the parent/child
relationship between snapshots. 
snaptime
 is the snapshot creation
time stamp (Unix epoch).
You can optionally save the memory of a running VM with the option 
vmstate
.
For details about how the target storage gets chosen for the VM state, see
State storage selection
 in the chapter
Hibernation
.
Options
acpi
: 
<boolean>
 (
default =
1
)
Enable/disable ACPI.
affinity
: 
<string>
List of host cores used to execute guest processes, for example: 0,5,8-11
agent
: 
[enabled=]<1|0> [,freeze-fs=<1|0>] [,fstrim_cloned_disks=<1|0>] [,type=<virtio|isa>]
Enable/disable communication with the QEMU Guest Agent and its properties.
enabled
=
<boolean>
 (
default =
0
)
Enable/disable communication with a QEMU Guest Agent (QGA) running in the VM.
freeze-fs
=
<boolean>
 (
default =
1
)
Whether to issue the guest-fsfreeze-freeze and guest-fsfreeze-thaw QEMU guest agent commands. Backups in snapshot mode, clones, snapshots without RAM, importing disks from a running guest, and replications normally issue a guest-fsfreeze-freeze and a respective thaw command when the QEMU Guest agent option is enabled in the guest’s configuration and the agent is running inside of the guest.
The deprecated 
freeze-fs-on-backup
 setting is treated as an alias for this setting.
fstrim_cloned_disks
=
<boolean>
 (
default =
0
)
Run fstrim after moving a disk or migrating the VM.
type
=
<isa | virtio>
 (
default =
virtio
)
Select the agent type
allow-ksm
: 
<boolean>
 (
default =
1
)
Allow memory pages of this guest to be merged via KSM (Kernel Samepage Merging).
amd-sev
: 
[type=]<sev-type> [,allow-smt=<1|0>] [,kernel-hashes=<1|0>] [,no-debug=<1|0>] [,no-key-sharing=<1|0>]
Secure Encrypted Virtualization (SEV) features by AMD CPUs
allow-smt
=
<boolean>
 (
default =
1
)
Sets policy bit to allow Simultaneous Multi Threading (SMT) (Ignored unless for SEV-SNP)
kernel-hashes
=
<boolean>
 (
default =
0
)
Add kernel hashes to guest firmware for measured linux kernel launch
no-debug
=
<boolean>
 (
default =
0
)
Sets policy bit to disallow debugging of guest
no-key-sharing
=
<boolean>
 (
default =
0
)
Sets policy bit to disallow key sharing with other guests (Ignored for SEV-SNP)
type
=
<sev-type>
Enable standard SEV with type=
std
 or enable experimental SEV-ES with the 
es
 option or enable experimental SEV-SNP with the 
snp
 option.
arch
: 
<aarch64 | x86_64>
Virtual processor architecture. Defaults to the host architecture.
args
: 
<string>
Arbitrary arguments passed to kvm, for example:
args: -no-reboot -smbios 
type=0,vendor=FOO
this option is for experts only.
audio0
: 
device=<ich9-intel-hda|intel-hda|AC97> [,driver=<spice|none>]
Configure a audio device, useful in combination with QXL/Spice.
device
=
<AC97 | ich9-intel-hda | intel-hda>
Configure an audio device.
driver
=
<none | spice>
 (
default =
spice
)
Driver backend for the audio device.
autostart
: 
<boolean>
 (
default =
0
)
Automatic restart after crash (currently ignored).
balloon
: 
<integer> (0 - N)
Amount of target RAM for the VM in MiB. The balloon driver is enabled by default, unless it is explicitly disabled by setting the value to zero.
bios
: 
<ovmf | seabios>
 (
default =
seabios
)
Select BIOS implementation.
boot
: 
[[legacy=]<[acdn]{1,4}>] [,order=<device[;device...]>]
Specify guest boot order. Use the 
order=
 sub-property as usage with no key or 
legacy=
 is deprecated.
legacy
=
<[acdn]{1,4}>
 (
default =
cdn
)
Boot on floppy (a), hard disk (c), CD-ROM (d), or network (n). Deprecated, use 
order=
 instead.
order
=
<device[;device...]>
The guest will attempt to boot from devices in the order they appear here.
Disks, optical drives and passed-through storage USB devices will be directly
booted from, NICs will load PXE, and PCIe devices will either behave like disks
(e.g. NVMe) or load an option ROM (e.g. RAID controller, hardware NIC).
Note that only devices in this list will be marked as bootable and thus loaded
by the guest firmware (BIOS/UEFI). If you require multiple disks for booting
(e.g. software-raid), you need to specify all of them here.
Overrides the deprecated 
legacy=[acdn]*
 value when given.
bootdisk
: 
(ide|sata|scsi|virtio)\d+
Enable booting from specified disk. Deprecated: Use 
boot: order=foo;bar
 instead.
cdrom
: 
<volume>
This is an alias for option -ide2
cicustom
: 
[meta=<volume>] [,network=<volume>] [,user=<volume>] [,vendor=<volume>]
cloud-init: Specify custom files to replace the automatically generated ones at start.
meta
=
<volume>
Specify a custom file containing all meta data passed to the VM via cloud-init. This is provider specific meaning configdrive2 and nocloud differ.
network
=
<volume>
To pass a custom file containing all network data to the VM via cloud-init.
user
=
<volume>
To pass a custom file containing all user data to the VM via cloud-init.
vendor
=
<volume>
To pass a custom file containing all vendor data to the VM via cloud-init.
cipassword
: 
<string>
cloud-init: Password to assign the user. Using this is generally not recommended. Use ssh keys instead. Also note that older cloud-init versions do not support hashed passwords.
citype
: 
<configdrive2 | nocloud | opennebula>
Specifies the cloud-init configuration format. The default depends on the configured operating system type (
ostype
. We use the 
nocloud
 format for Linux, and 
configdrive2
 for windows.
ciupgrade
: 
<boolean>
 (
default =
1
)
cloud-init: do an automatic package upgrade after the first boot.
ciuser
: 
<string>
cloud-init: User name to change ssh keys and password for instead of the image’s configured default user.
cores
: 
<integer> (1 - N)
 (
default =
1
)
The number of cores per socket.
cpu
: 
[[cputype=]<string>] [,flags=<+FLAG[;-FLAG...]>] [,guest-phys-bits=<integer>] [,hidden=<1|0>] [,hv-vendor-id=<vendor-id>] [,level=<integer>] [,phys-bits=<8-64|host>] [,reported-model=<enum>]
Emulated CPU type.
cputype
=
<string>
 (
default =
kvm64
)
Emulated CPU type. Can be default or custom name (custom model names must be prefixed with 
custom-
).
flags
=
<+FLAG[;-FLAG...]>
List of additional CPU flags separated by 
;
. Use 
+FLAG
 to enable, 
-FLAG
 to disable a flag. There is a special 
nested-virt
 shorthand which controls nested virtualization for the current CPU (
svm
 for AMD and 
vmx
 for Intel). Custom CPU models can specify any flag supported by QEMU/KVM, VM-specific flags must be from the following set for security reasons: aes, amd-no-ssb, amd-ssbd, hv-evmcs, hv-tlbflush, ibpb, md-clear, nested-virt, pcid, pdpe1gb, spec-ctrl, ssbd, virt-ssbd
guest-phys-bits
=
<integer> (32 - 64)
Number of physical address bits available to the guest.
hidden
=
<boolean>
 (
default =
0
)
Do not identify as a KVM virtual machine. Only affects vCPUs with x86-64 architecture.
hv-vendor-id
=
<vendor-id>
The Hyper-V vendor ID. Some drivers or programs inside Windows guests need a specific ID.
level
=
<integer> (0 - 4294967295)
Maximum input value for the basic CPUID leaves the guest can query - that is the vendor (leaf 0), family/model/stepping and feature bits (leaf 1), cache and topology info (leaves 4 and B), and so on. Higher-numbered leaves are hidden. Setting 
30
 is a common workaround for Hyper-V boot failures on Windows guests running on recent Intel hosts. Only applies when the vCPU architecture is x86_64.
phys-bits
=
<8-64|host>
The physical memory address bits that are reported to the guest OS. Should be smaller or equal to the host’s. Set to 
host
 to use value from host CPU, but note that doing so will break live migration to CPUs with other values.
reported-model
=
<486 | Broadwell | Broadwell-IBRS | Broadwell-noTSX | Broadwell-noTSX-IBRS | Cascadelake-Server | Cascadelake-Server-noTSX | Cascadelake-Server-v2 | Cascadelake-Server-v4 | Cascadelake-Server-v5 | ClearwaterForest | ClearwaterForest-v2 | ClearwaterForest-v3 | Conroe | Cooperlake | Cooperlake-v2 | DiamondRapids | EPYC | EPYC-Genoa | EPYC-Genoa-v2 | EPYC-IBPB | EPYC-Milan | EPYC-Milan-v2 | EPYC-Milan-v3 | EPYC-Rome | EPYC-Rome-v2 | EPYC-Rome-v3 | EPYC-Rome-v4 | EPYC-Rome-v5 | EPYC-Turin | EPYC-v3 | EPYC-v4 | EPYC-v5 | GraniteRapids | GraniteRapids-v2 | GraniteRapids-v3 | GraniteRapids-v4 | GraniteRapids-v5 | Haswell | Haswell-IBRS | Haswell-noTSX | Haswell-noTSX-IBRS | Icelake-Client | Icelake-Client-noTSX | Icelake-Server | Icelake-Server-noTSX | Icelake-Server-v3 | Icelake-Server-v4 | Icelake-Server-v5 | Icelake-Server-v6 | Icelake-Server-v7 | IvyBridge | IvyBridge-IBRS | KnightsMill | Nehalem | Nehalem-IBRS | Opteron_G1 | Opteron_G2 | Opteron_G3 | Opteron_G4 | Opteron_G5 | Penryn | SandyBridge | SandyBridge-IBRS | SapphireRapids | SapphireRapids-v2 | SapphireRapids-v3 | SapphireRapids-v4 | SapphireRapids-v5 | SapphireRapids-v6 | SierraForest | SierraForest-v2 | SierraForest-v3 | SierraForest-v4 | SierraForest-v5 | Skylake-Client | Skylake-Client-IBRS | Skylake-Client-noTSX-IBRS | Skylake-Client-v4 | Skylake-Server | Skylake-Server-IBRS | Skylake-Server-noTSX-IBRS | Skylake-Server-v4 | Skylake-Server-v5 | Westmere | Westmere-IBRS | a64fx | athlon | core2duo | coreduo | cortex-a35 | cortex-a53 | cortex-a55 | cortex-a57 | cortex-a710 | cortex-a72 | cortex-a76 | cortex-a78ae | host | kvm32 | kvm64 | max | neoverse-n1 | neoverse-n2 | neoverse-v1 | pentium | pentium2 | pentium3 | phenom | qemu32 | qemu64>
 (
default =
kvm64
)
CPU model and vendor to report to the guest. Must be a QEMU/KVM supported model. Only valid for custom CPU model definitions, default models will always report themselves to the guest OS.
cpulimit
: 
<number> (0 - 128)
 (
default =
0
)
Limit of CPU usage.
If the computer has 2 CPUs, it has total of 
2
 CPU time. Value 
0
 indicates no CPU limit.
cpuunits
: 
<integer> (1 - 262144)
 (
default =
cgroup v1: 1024, cgroup v2: 100
)
CPU weight for a VM. Argument is used in the kernel fair scheduler. The larger the number is, the more CPU time this VM gets. Number is relative to weights of all the other running VMs.
description
: 
<string>
Description for the VM. Shown in the web-interface VM’s summary. This is saved as comment inside the configuration file.
efidisk0
: 
[file=]<volume> [,efitype=<2m|4m>] [,format=<enum>] [,ms-cert=<enum>] [,pre-enrolled-keys=<1|0>] [,size=<DiskSize>]
Configure a disk for storing EFI vars.
efitype
=
<2m | 4m>
 (
default =
2m
)
Size and type of the OVMF EFI vars. 
4m
 is newer and recommended, and required for Secure Boot. For backwards compatibility, 
2m
 is used if not otherwise specified. Ignored for VMs with arch=aarch64 (ARM).
file
=
<volume>
The drive’s backing volume.
format
=
<cloop | qcow | qcow2 | qed | raw | vmdk>
The drive’s backing file’s data format.
ms-cert
=
<2011 | 2023 | 2023k | 2023w>
 (
default =
2011
)
Informational marker indicating the version of the latest Microsoft UEFI certificates that have been enrolled by Proxmox VE. The value 
2023k
 means that the 
Microsoft UEFI CA 2023
, the 
Windows UEFI CA 2023
 and the 
Microsoft Corporation KEK 2K CA 2023
 certificates are included. The values 
2023
 and 
2023w
 are deprecated and for compatibility only.
pre-enrolled-keys
=
<boolean>
 (
default =
0
)
Use am EFI vars template with distribution-specific and Microsoft Standard keys enrolled, if used with 
efitype=4m
. Note that this will enable Secure Boot by default, though it can still be turned off from within the VM.
size
=
<DiskSize>
Disk size. This is purely informational and has no effect.
freeze
: 
<boolean>
Freeze CPU at startup (use 
c
 monitor command to start execution).
hookscript
: 
<string>
Script that will be executed during various steps in the vms lifetime.
hostpci[n]
: 
[[host=]<HOSTPCIID[;HOSTPCIID2...]>] [,device-id=<hex id>] [,driver=<vfio|keep>] [,legacy-igd=<1|0>] [,mapping=<mapping-id>] [,mdev=<string>] [,pcie=<1|0>] [,rombar=<1|0>] [,romfile=<string>] [,sub-device-id=<hex id>] [,sub-vendor-id=<hex id>] [,vendor-id=<hex id>] [,x-vga=<1|0>]
Map host PCI devices into guest.
This option allows direct access to host hardware. So it is no longer
possible to migrate such machines - use with special care.
Experimental! User reported problems with this option.
device-id
=
<hex id>
Override PCI device ID visible to guest
driver
=
<keep | vfio>
 (
default =
vfio
)
If set to 
keep
 the device will neither be reset nor bound to the 
vfio-pci
 driver. Useful for devices that already have the correct driver loaded.
host
=
<HOSTPCIID[;HOSTPCIID2...]>
Host PCI device pass through. The PCI ID of a host’s PCI device or a list
of PCI virtual functions of the host. HOSTPCIID syntax is:
bus:dev.func
 (hexadecimal numbers)
You can use the 
lspci
 command to list existing PCI devices.
Either this or the 
mapping
 key must be set.
legacy-igd
=
<boolean>
 (
default =
0
)
Pass this device in legacy IGD mode, making it the primary and exclusive graphics device in the VM. Requires 
pc-i440fx
 machine type and VGA set to 
none
.
mapping
=
<mapping-id>
The ID of a cluster wide mapping. Either this or the default-key 
host
 must be set.
mdev
=
<string>
The type of mediated device to use.
An instance of this type will be created on startup of the VM and
will be cleaned up when the VM stops.
pcie
=
<boolean>
 (
default =
0
)
Choose the PCI-express bus (needs the 
q35
 machine model).
rombar
=
<boolean>
 (
default =
1
)
Specify whether or not the device’s ROM will be visible in the guest’s memory map.
romfile
=
<string>
Custom pci device rom filename (must be located in /usr/share/kvm/).
sub-device-id
=
<hex id>
Override PCI subsystem device ID visible to guest
sub-vendor-id
=
<hex id>
Override PCI subsystem vendor ID visible to guest
vendor-id
=
<hex id>
Override PCI vendor ID visible to guest
x-vga
=
<boolean>
 (
default =
0
)
Enable vfio-vga device support.
hotplug
: 
<string>
 (
default =
network,disk,usb
)
Selectively enable hotplug features. This is a comma separated list of hotplug features: 
network
, 
disk
, 
cpu
, 
memory
, 
usb
 and 
cloudinit
. Use 
0
 to disable hotplug completely. Using 
1
 as value is an alias for the default 
network,disk,usb
. USB hotplugging is possible for guests with machine version >= 7.1 and ostype l26 or windows > 7.
hugepages
: 
<1024 | 2 | any>
Enables hugepages memory.
Sets the size of hugepages in MiB. If the value is set to 
any
 then 1 GiB hugepages will be used if possible, otherwise the size will fall back to 2 MiB.
ide[n]
: 
[file=]<volume> [,aio=<native|threads|io_uring>] [,backup=<1|0>] [,bps=<bps>] [,bps_max_length=<seconds>] [,bps_rd=<bps>] [,bps_rd_max_length=<seconds>] [,bps_wr=<bps>] [,bps_wr_max_length=<seconds>] [,cache=<enum>] [,detect_zeroes=<1|0>] [,discard=<ignore|on>] [,format=<enum>] [,iops=<iops>] [,iops_max=<iops>] [,iops_max_length=<seconds>] [,iops_rd=<iops>] [,iops_rd_max=<iops>] [,iops_rd_max_length=<seconds>] [,iops_wr=<iops>] [,iops_wr_max=<iops>] [,iops_wr_max_length=<seconds>] [,mbps=<mbps>] [,mbps_max=<mbps>] [,mbps_rd=<mbps>] [,mbps_rd_max=<mbps>] [,mbps_wr=<mbps>] [,mbps_wr_max=<mbps>] [,media=<cdrom|disk>] [,model=<model>] [,replicate=<1|0>] [,rerror=<ignore|report|stop>] [,serial=<serial>] [,shared=<1|0>] [,size=<DiskSize>] [,snapshot=<1|0>] [,ssd=<1|0>] [,werror=<enum>] [,wwn=<wwn>]
Use volume as IDE hard disk or CD-ROM (n is 0 to 3).
aio
=
<io_uring | native | threads>
AIO type to use.
backup
=
<boolean>
Whether the drive should be included when making backups.
bps
=
<bps>
Maximum r/w speed in bytes per second.
bps_max_length
=
<seconds>
Maximum length of I/O bursts in seconds.
bps_rd
=
<bps>
Maximum read speed in bytes per second.
bps_rd_max_length
=
<seconds>
Maximum length of read I/O bursts in seconds.
bps_wr
=
<bps>
Maximum write speed in bytes per second.
bps_wr_max_length
=
<seconds>
Maximum length of write I/O bursts in seconds.
cache
=
<directsync | none | unsafe | writeback | writethrough>
The drive’s cache mode
detect_zeroes
=
<boolean>
Controls whether to detect and try to optimize writes of zeroes.
discard
=
<ignore | on>
Controls whether to pass discard/trim requests to the underlying storage.
file
=
<volume>
The drive’s backing volume.
format
=
<cloop | qcow | qcow2 | qed | raw | vmdk>
The drive’s backing file’s data format.
iops
=
<iops>
Maximum r/w I/O in operations per second.
iops_max
=
<iops>
Maximum unthrottled r/w I/O pool in operations per second.
iops_max_length
=
<seconds>
Maximum length of I/O bursts in seconds.
iops_rd
=
<iops>
Maximum read I/O in operations per second.
iops_rd_max
=
<iops>
Maximum unthrottled read I/O pool in operations per second.
iops_rd_max_length
=
<seconds>
Maximum length of read I/O bursts in seconds.
iops_wr
=
<iops>
Maximum write I/O in operations per second.
iops_wr_max
=
<iops>
Maximum unthrottled write I/O pool in operations per second.
iops_wr_max_length
=
<seconds>
Maximum length of write I/O bursts in seconds.
mbps
=
<mbps>
Maximum r/w speed in megabytes per second.
mbps_max
=
<mbps>
Maximum unthrottled r/w pool in megabytes per second.
mbps_rd
=
<mbps>
Maximum read speed in megabytes per second.
mbps_rd_max
=
<mbps>
Maximum unthrottled read pool in megabytes per second.
mbps_wr
=
<mbps>
Maximum write speed in megabytes per second.
mbps_wr_max
=
<mbps>
Maximum unthrottled write pool in megabytes per second.
media
=
<cdrom | disk>
 (
default =
disk
)
The drive’s media type.
model
=
<model>
The drive’s reported model name, url-encoded, up to 40 bytes long.
replicate
=
<boolean>
 (
default =
1
)
Whether the drive should considered for replication jobs.
rerror
=
<ignore | report | stop>
Read error action.
serial
=
<serial>
The drive’s reported serial number, url-encoded, up to 20 bytes long.
shared
=
<boolean>
 (
default =
0
)
Mark this locally-managed volume as available on all nodes.
This option does not share the volume automatically, it assumes it is shared already!
size
=
<DiskSize>
Disk size. This is purely informational and has no effect.
snapshot
=
<boolean>
Controls qemu’s snapshot mode feature. If activated, changes made to the disk are temporary and will be discarded when the VM is shutdown.
ssd
=
<boolean>
Whether to expose this drive as an SSD, rather than a rotational hard disk.
werror
=
<enospc | ignore | report | stop>
Write error action.
wwn
=
<wwn>
The drive’s worldwide name, encoded as 16 bytes hex string, prefixed by 
0x
.
intel-tdx
: 
[type=]<tdx-type> ,attestation=<1|0> [,vsock-cid=<integer>] [,vsock-port=<integer>]
Trusted Domain Extension (TDX) features by Intel CPUs
attestation
=
<boolean>
 (
default =
1
)
Enable TDX attestation by including quote-generation-socket
type
=
<tdx-type>
Enable TDX
vsock-cid
=
<integer> (2 - N)
 (
default =
2
)
CID for vsock of Quote Generation Service
vsock-port
=
<integer> (0 - N)
 (
default =
4050
)
Port for vsock of Quote Generation Service
ipconfig[n]
: 
[gw=<GatewayIPv4>] [,gw6=<GatewayIPv6>] [,ip=<IPv4Format/CIDR>] [,ip6=<IPv6Format/CIDR>]
cloud-init: Specify IP addresses and gateways for the corresponding interface.
IP addresses use CIDR notation, gateways are optional but need an IP of the same type specified.
The special string 
dhcp
 can be used for IP addresses to use DHCP, in which case no explicit
gateway should be provided.
For IPv6 the special string 
auto
 can be used to use stateless autoconfiguration. This requires
cloud-init 19.4 or newer.
If cloud-init is enabled and neither an IPv4 nor an IPv6 address is specified, it defaults to using
dhcp on IPv4.
gw
=
<GatewayIPv4>
Default gateway for IPv4 traffic.
Requires option(s): 
ip
gw6
=
<GatewayIPv6>
Default gateway for IPv6 traffic.
Requires option(s): 
ip6
ip
=
<IPv4Format/CIDR>
 (
default =
dhcp
)
IPv4 address in CIDR format.
ip6
=
<IPv6Format/CIDR>
 (
default =
dhcp
)
IPv6 address in CIDR format.
ivshmem
: 
size=<integer> [,name=<string>]
Inter-VM shared memory. Useful for direct communication between VMs, or to the host.
name
=
<string>
The name of the file. Will be prefixed with 
pve-shm-
. Default is the VMID. Will be deleted when the VM is stopped.
size
=
<integer> (1 - N)
The size of the file in MB.
keephugepages
: 
<boolean>
 (
default =
0
)
Use together with hugepages. If enabled, hugepages will not not be deleted after VM shutdown and can be used for subsequent starts.
keyboard
: 
<da | de | de-ch | en-gb | en-us | es | fi | fr | fr-be | fr-ca | fr-ch | hu | is | it | ja | lt | mk | nl | no | pl | pt | pt-br | sl | sv | tr>
Keyboard layout for VNC server. This option is generally not required and is often better handled from within the guest OS.
kvm
: 
<boolean>
 (
default =
1
)
Enable/disable KVM hardware virtualization.
localtime
: 
<boolean>
Set the real time clock (RTC) to local time. This is enabled by default if the 
ostype
 indicates a Microsoft Windows OS.
lock
: 
<backup | clone | create | migrate | rollback | snapshot | snapshot-delete | suspended | suspending>
Lock/unlock the VM.
machine
: 
[[type=]<machine type>] [,aw-bits=<number>] [,enable-s3=<1|0>] [,enable-s4=<1|0>] [,viommu=<intel|virtio>]
Specify the QEMU machine.
aw-bits
=
<number> (32 - 64)
Specifies the vIOMMU address space bit width.
Intel vIOMMU supports a bit width of either 39 or 48 bits and VirtIO vIOMMU supports any bit width between 32 and 64 bits.
enable-s3
=
<boolean>
Enables S3 power state. Defaults to false beginning with machine types 9.2+pve1, true before.
enable-s4
=
<boolean>
Enables S4 power state. Defaults to false beginning with machine types 9.2+pve1, true before.
type
=
<machine type>
Specifies the QEMU machine type.
viommu
=
<intel | virtio>
Enable and set guest vIOMMU variant (Intel vIOMMU needs q35 to be set as machine type).
memory
: 
[current=]<integer>
Memory properties.
current
=
<integer> (16 - N)
 (
default =
512
)
Current amount of online RAM for the VM in MiB. This is the maximum available memory when you use the balloon device.
migrate_downtime
: 
<number> (0 - N)
 (
default =
0.1
)
Set maximum tolerated downtime (in seconds) for migrations. Should the migration not be able to converge in the very end, because too much newly dirtied RAM needs to be transferred, the limit will be increased automatically step-by-step until migration can converge. Will be capped to 2000 seconds (maximum in QEMU).
migrate_speed
: 
<integer> (0 - N)
 (
default =
0
)
Set maximum speed (in MB/s) for migrations. Value 0 is no limit.
name
: 
<string>
Set a name for the VM. Only used on the configuration web interface.
nameserver
: 
<string>
cloud-init: Sets DNS server IP address for a container. Create will automatically use the setting from the host if neither searchdomain nor nameserver are set.
net[n]
: 
[model=]<enum> [,bridge=<bridge>] [,firewall=<1|0>] [,host-tunnel=<1|0>] [,link_down=<1|0>] [,macaddr=<XX:XX:XX:XX:XX:XX>] [,mtu=<integer>] [,queues=<integer>] [,rate=<number>] [,tag=<integer>] [,trunks=<vlanid[;vlanid...]>] [,<model>=<macaddr>]
Specify network devices.
bridge
=
<bridge>
Bridge to attach the network device to. The Proxmox VE standard bridge
is called 
vmbr0
.
If you do not specify a bridge, we create a kvm user (NATed) network
device, which provides DHCP and DNS services. The following addresses
are used:
10.0.2.2   Gateway
10.0.2.3   DNS Server
10.0.2.4   SMB Server
The DHCP server assign addresses to the guest starting from 10.0.2.15.
firewall
=
<boolean>
Whether this interface should be protected by the firewall.
host-tunnel
=
<boolean>
Enable host GSO over UDP tunnel offload (VirtIO only). Requires QEMU > 10.2 and guest and host kernel support. Disabled by default starting with machine version 11.0+pve1 to work around an issue with the virtio-net driver in guest kernels. With machine versions 10.2 and 11.0, this is enabled by default.
link_down
=
<boolean>
Whether this interface should be disconnected (like pulling the plug).
macaddr
=
<XX:XX:XX:XX:XX:XX>
A common MAC address with the I/G (Individual/Group) bit not set.
model
=
<e1000 | e1000-82540em | e1000-82544gc | e1000-82545em | e1000e | i82551 | i82557b | i82559er | ne2k_isa | ne2k_pci | pcnet | rtl8139 | virtio | vmxnet3>
Network Card Model. The 
virtio
 model provides the best performance with very low CPU overhead. If your guest does not support this driver, it is usually best to use 
e1000
.
mtu
=
<integer> (1 - 65520)
Force MTU of network device (VirtIO only). Setting to 
1
 or empty will use the bridge MTU
queues
=
<integer> (0 - 64)
Number of packet queues to be used on the device.
rate
=
<number> (0 - N)
Rate limit in mbps (megabytes per second) as floating point number.
tag
=
<integer> (1 - 4094)
VLAN tag to apply to packets on this interface.
trunks
=
<vlanid[;vlanid...]>
VLAN trunks to pass through this interface.
numa
: 
<boolean>
 (
default =
0
)
Enable/disable NUMA.
numa[n]
: 
cpus=<id[-id];...> [,hostnodes=<id[-id];...>] [,memory=<number>] [,policy=<preferred|bind|interleave>]
NUMA topology.
cpus
=
<id[-id];...>
CPUs accessing this NUMA node.
hostnodes
=
<id[-id];...>
Host NUMA nodes to use.
memory
=
<number>
Amount of memory this NUMA node provides.
policy
=
<bind | interleave | preferred>
NUMA allocation policy.
onboot
: 
<boolean>
 (
default =
0
)
Specifies whether a VM will be started during system bootup.
ostype
: 
<l24 | l26 | other | solaris | w2k | w2k3 | w2k8 | win10 | win11 | win7 | win8 | wvista | wxp>
 (
default =
other
)
Specify guest operating system. This is used to enable special
optimization/features for specific operating systems:
other
unspecified OS
wxp
Microsoft Windows XP
w2k
Microsoft Windows 2000
w2k3
Microsoft Windows 2003
w2k8
Microsoft Windows 2008
wvista
Microsoft Windows Vista
win7
Microsoft Windows 7
win8
Microsoft Windows 8/2012/2012r2
win10
Microsoft Windows 10/2016/2019
win11
Microsoft Windows 11/2022/2025
l24
Linux 2.4 Kernel
l26
Linux 2.6 - 7.X Kernel
solaris
Solaris/OpenSolaris/OpenIndiania kernel
parallel[n]
: 
/dev/parport\d+|/dev/usb/lp\d+
Map host parallel devices (n is 0 to 2).
This option allows direct access to host hardware. So it is no longer possible to migrate such
machines - use with special care.
Experimental! User reported problems with this option.
protection
: 
<boolean>
 (
default =
0
)
Sets the protection flag of the VM. This will disable the remove VM and remove disk operations.
reboot
: 
<boolean>
 (
default =
1
)
Allow reboot. If set to 
0
 the VM exit on reboot.
rng0
: 
[source=]</dev/urandom|/dev/random|/dev/hwrng> [,max_bytes=<integer>] [,period=<integer>]
Configure a VirtIO-based Random Number Generator.
max_bytes
=
<integer>
 (
default =
1024
)
Maximum bytes of entropy allowed to get injected into the guest every 
period
 milliseconds. Use 
0
 to disable limiting (potentially dangerous!).
period
=
<integer>
 (
default =
1000
)
Every 
period
 milliseconds the entropy-injection quota is reset, allowing the guest to retrieve another 
max_bytes
 of entropy.
source
=
</dev/hwrng | /dev/random | /dev/urandom>
The file on the host to gather entropy from. Using urandom does 
not
 decrease security in any meaningful way, as it’s still seeded from real entropy, and the bytes provided will most likely be mixed with real entropy on the guest as well. 
/dev/hwrng
 can be used to pass through a hardware RNG from the host.
sata[n]
: 
[file=]<volume> [,aio=<native|threads|io_uring>] [,backup=<1|0>] [,bps=<bps>] [,bps_max_length=<seconds>] [,bps_rd=<bps>] [,bps_rd_max_length=<seconds>] [,bps_wr=<bps>] [,bps_wr_max_length=<seconds>] [,cache=<enum>] [,detect_zeroes=<1|0>] [,discard=<ignore|on>] [,format=<enum>] [,iops=<iops>] [,iops_max=<iops>] [,iops_max_length=<seconds>] [,iops_rd=<iops>] [,iops_rd_max=<iops>] [,iops_rd_max_length=<seconds>] [,iops_wr=<iops>] [,iops_wr_max=<iops>] [,iops_wr_max_length=<seconds>] [,mbps=<mbps>] [,mbps_max=<mbps>] [,mbps_rd=<mbps>] [,mbps_rd_max=<mbps>] [,mbps_wr=<mbps>] [,mbps_wr_max=<mbps>] [,media=<cdrom|disk>] [,replicate=<1|0>] [,rerror=<ignore|report|stop>] [,serial=<serial>] [,shared=<1|0>] [,size=<DiskSize>] [,snapshot=<1|0>] [,ssd=<1|0>] [,werror=<enum>] [,wwn=<wwn>]
Use volume as SATA hard disk or CD-ROM (n is 0 to 5).
aio
=
<io_uring | native | threads>
AIO type to use.
backup
=
<boolean>
Whether the drive should be included when making backups.
bps
=
<bps>
Maximum r/w speed in bytes per second.
bps_max_length
=
<seconds>
Maximum length of I/O bursts in seconds.
bps_rd
=
<bps>
Maximum read speed in bytes per second.
bps_rd_max_length
=
<seconds>
Maximum length of read I/O bursts in seconds.
bps_wr
=
<bps>
Maximum write speed in bytes per second.
bps_wr_max_length
=
<seconds>
Maximum length of write I/O bursts in seconds.
cache
=
<directsync | none | unsafe | writeback | writethrough>
The drive’s cache mode
detect_zeroes
=
<boolean>
Controls whether to detect and try to optimize writes of zeroes.
discard
=
<ignore | on>
Controls whether to pass discard/trim requests to the underlying storage.
file
=
<volume>
The drive’s backing volume.
format
=
<cloop | qcow | qcow2 | qed | raw | vmdk>
The drive’s backing file’s data format.
iops
=
<iops>
Maximum r/w I/O in operations per second.
iops_max
=
<iops>
Maximum unthrottled r/w I/O pool in operations per second.
iops_max_length
=
<seconds>
Maximum length of I/O bursts in seconds.
iops_rd
=
<iops>
Maximum read I/O in operations per second.
iops_rd_max
=
<iops>
Maximum unthrottled read I/O pool in operations per second.
iops_rd_max_length
=
<seconds>
Maximum length of read I/O bursts in seconds.
iops_wr
=
<iops>
Maximum write I/O in operations per second.
iops_wr_max
=
<iops>
Maximum unthrottled write I/O pool in operations per second.
iops_wr_max_length
=
<seconds>
Maximum length of write I/O bursts in seconds.
mbps
=
<mbps>
Maximum r/w speed in megabytes per second.
mbps_max
=
<mbps>
Maximum unthrottled r/w pool in megabytes per second.
mbps_rd
=
<mbps>
Maximum read speed in megabytes per second.
mbps_rd_max
=
<mbps>
Maximum unthrottled read pool in megabytes per second.
mbps_wr
=
<mbps>
Maximum write speed in megabytes per second.
mbps_wr_max
=
<mbps>
Maximum unthrottled write pool in megabytes per second.
media
=
<cdrom | disk>
 (
default =
disk
)
The drive’s media type.
replicate
=
<boolean>
 (
default =
1
)
Whether the drive should considered for replication jobs.
rerror
=
<ignore | report | stop>
Read error action.
serial
=
<serial>
The drive’s reported serial number, url-encoded, up to 20 bytes long.
shared
=
<boolean>
 (
default =
0
)
Mark this locally-managed volume as available on all nodes.
This option does not share the volume automatically, it assumes it is shared already!
size
=
<DiskSize>
Disk size. This is purely informational and has no effect.
snapshot
=
<boolean>
Controls qemu’s snapshot mode feature. If activated, changes made to the disk are temporary and will be discarded when the VM is shutdown.
ssd
=
<boolean>
Whether to expose this drive as an SSD, rather than a rotational hard disk.
werror
=
<enospc | ignore | report | stop>
Write error action.
wwn
=
<wwn>
The drive’s worldwide name, encoded as 16 bytes hex string, prefixed by 
0x
.
scsi[n]
: 
[file=]<volume> [,aio=<native|threads|io_uring>] [,backup=<1|0>] [,bps=<bps>] [,bps_max_length=<seconds>] [,bps_rd=<bps>] [,bps_rd_max_length=<seconds>] [,bps_wr=<bps>] [,bps_wr_max_length=<seconds>] [,cache=<enum>] [,detect_zeroes=<1|0>] [,discard=<ignore|on>] [,format=<enum>] [,iops=<iops>] [,iops_max=<iops>] [,iops_max_length=<seconds>] [,iops_rd=<iops>] [,iops_rd_max=<iops>] [,iops_rd_max_length=<seconds>] [,iops_wr=<iops>] [,iops_wr_max=<iops>] [,iops_wr_max_length=<seconds>] [,iothread=<1|0>] [,mbps=<mbps>] [,mbps_max=<mbps>] [,mbps_rd=<mbps>] [,mbps_rd_max=<mbps>] [,mbps_wr=<mbps>] [,mbps_wr_max=<mbps>] [,media=<cdrom|disk>] [,product=<product>] [,queues=<integer>] [,replicate=<1|0>] [,rerror=<ignore|report|stop>] [,ro=<1|0>] [,scsiblock=<1|0>] [,serial=<serial>] [,shared=<1|0>] [,size=<DiskSize>] [,snapshot=<1|0>] [,ssd=<1|0>] [,vendor=<vendor>] [,werror=<enum>] [,wwn=<wwn>]
Use volume as SCSI hard disk or CD-ROM (n is 0 to 30).
aio
=
<io_uring | native | threads>
AIO type to use.
backup
=
<boolean>
Whether the drive should be included when making backups.
bps
=
<bps>
Maximum r/w speed in bytes per second.
bps_max_length
=
<seconds>
Maximum length of I/O bursts in seconds.
bps_rd
=
<bps>
Maximum read speed in bytes per second.
bps_rd_max_length
=
<seconds>
Maximum length of read I/O bursts in seconds.
bps_wr
=
<bps>
Maximum write speed in bytes per second.
bps_wr_max_length
=
<seconds>
Maximum length of write I/O bursts in seconds.
cache
=
<directsync | none | unsafe | writeback | writethrough>
The drive’s cache mode
detect_zeroes
=
<boolean>
Controls whether to detect and try to optimize writes of zeroes.
discard
=
<ignore | on>
Controls whether to pass discard/trim requests to the underlying storage.
file
=
<volume>
The drive’s backing volume.
format
=
<cloop | qcow | qcow2 | qed | raw | vmdk>
The drive’s backing file’s data format.
iops
=
<iops>
Maximum r/w I/O in operations per second.
iops_max
=
<iops>
Maximum unthrottled r/w I/O pool in operations per second.
iops_max_length
=
<seconds>
Maximum length of I/O bursts in seconds.
iops_rd
=
<iops>
Maximum read I/O in operations per second.
iops_rd_max
=
<iops>
Maximum unthrottled read I/O pool in operations per second.
iops_rd_max_length
=
<seconds>
Maximum length of read I/O bursts in seconds.
iops_wr
=
<iops>
Maximum write I/O in operations per second.
iops_wr_max
=
<iops>
Maximum unthrottled write I/O pool in operations per second.
iops_wr_max_length
=
<seconds>
Maximum length of write I/O bursts in seconds.
iothread
=
<boolean>
Whether to use iothreads for this drive
mbps
=
<mbps>
Maximum r/w speed in megabytes per second.
mbps_max
=
<mbps>
Maximum unthrottled r/w pool in megabytes per second.
mbps_rd
=
<mbps>
Maximum read speed in megabytes per second.
mbps_rd_max
=
<mbps>
Maximum unthrottled read pool in megabytes per second.
mbps_wr
=
<mbps>
Maximum write speed in megabytes per second.
mbps_wr_max
=
<mbps>
Maximum unthrottled write pool in megabytes per second.
media
=
<cdrom | disk>
 (
default =
disk
)
The drive’s media type.
product
=
<product>
The drive’s product name, up to 16 bytes long.
queues
=
<integer> (2 - N)
Number of queues.
replicate
=
<boolean>
 (
default =
1
)
Whether the drive should considered for replication jobs.
rerror
=
<ignore | report | stop>
Read error action.
ro
=
<boolean>
Whether the drive is read-only.
scsiblock
=
<boolean>
 (
default =
0
)
whether to use scsi-block for full passthrough of host block device
can lead to I/O errors in combination with low memory or high memory fragmentation on host
serial
=
<serial>
The drive’s reported serial number, url-encoded, up to 20 bytes long.
shared
=
<boolean>
 (
default =
0
)
Mark this locally-managed volume as available on all nodes.
This option does not share the volume automatically, it assumes it is shared already!
size
=
<DiskSize>
Disk size. This is purely informational and has no effect.
snapshot
=
<boolean>
Controls qemu’s snapshot mode feature. If activated, changes made to the disk are temporary and will be discarded when the VM is shutdown.
ssd
=
<boolean>
Whether to expose this drive as an SSD, rather than a rotational hard disk.
vendor
=
<vendor>
The drive’s vendor name, up to 8 bytes long.
werror
=
<enospc | ignore | report | stop>
Write error action.
wwn
=
<wwn>
The drive’s worldwide name, encoded as 16 bytes hex string, prefixed by 
0x
.
scsihw
: 
<lsi | lsi53c810 | megasas | pvscsi | virtio-scsi-pci | virtio-scsi-single>
 (
default =
lsi
)
SCSI controller model
searchdomain
: 
<string>
cloud-init: Sets DNS search domains for a container. Create will automatically use the setting from the host if neither searchdomain nor nameserver are set.
serial[n]
: 
(/dev/[^,]+|socket)
Create a serial device inside the VM (n is 0 to 3), and pass through a
host serial device (i.e. /dev/ttyS0), or create a unix socket on the
host side (use 
qm terminal
 to open a terminal connection).
If you pass through a host serial device, it is no longer possible to migrate such machines -
use with special care.
Experimental! User reported problems with this option.
shares
: 
<integer> (0 - 50000)
 (
default =
1000
)
Amount of memory shares for auto-ballooning. The larger the number is, the more memory this VM gets. Number is relative to weights of all other running VMs. Using zero disables auto-ballooning. Auto-ballooning is done by pvestatd.
smbios1
: 
[base64=<1|0>] [,family=<Base64 encoded string>] [,manufacturer=<Base64 encoded string>] [,product=<Base64 encoded string>] [,serial=<Base64 encoded string>] [,sku=<Base64 encoded string>] [,uuid=<UUID>] [,version=<Base64 encoded string>]
Specify SMBIOS type 1 fields.
base64
=
<boolean>
Flag to indicate that the SMBIOS values are base64 encoded
family
=
<Base64 encoded string>
Set SMBIOS1 family string.
manufacturer
=
<Base64 encoded string>
Set SMBIOS1 manufacturer.
product
=
<Base64 encoded string>
Set SMBIOS1 product ID.
serial
=
<Base64 encoded string>
Set SMBIOS1 serial number.
sku
=
<Base64 encoded string>
Set SMBIOS1 SKU string.
uuid
=
<UUID>
Set SMBIOS1 UUID.
version
=
<Base64 encoded string>
Set SMBIOS1 version.
smp
: 
<integer> (1 - N)
 (
default =
1
)
The number of CPUs. Please use option -sockets instead.
sockets
: 
<integer> (1 - N)
 (
default =
1
)
The number of CPU sockets.
spice_enhancements
: 
[foldersharing=<1|0>] [,videostreaming=<off|all|filter>]
Configure additional enhancements for SPICE.
foldersharing
=
<boolean>
 (
default =
0
)
Enable folder sharing via SPICE. Needs Spice-WebDAV daemon installed in the VM.
videostreaming
=
<all | filter | off>
 (
default =
off
)
Enable video streaming. Uses compression for detected video streams.
sshkeys
: 
<string>
cloud-init: Setup public SSH keys (one key per line, OpenSSH format).
startdate
: 
(now | YYYY-MM-DD | YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS)
 (
default =
now
)
Set the initial date of the real time clock. Valid format for date are:'now' or 
2006-06-17T16:01:21
 or 
2006-06-17
.
startup
: `[[order=]\d+] [,up=\d+] [,down=\d+] ` 
Startup and shutdown behavior. Order is a non-negative number defining the general startup order. Shutdown in done with reverse ordering. Additionally you can set the 
up
 or 
down
 delay in seconds, which specifies a delay to wait before the next VM is started or stopped.
tablet
: 
<boolean>
 (
default =
1
)
Enable/disable the USB tablet device. This device is usually needed to allow absolute mouse positioning with VNC. Else the mouse runs out of sync with normal VNC clients. If you’re running lots of console-only guests on one host, you may consider disabling this to save some context switches. This is turned off by default if you use spice (
qm set <vmid> --vga qxl
).
tags
: 
<string>
Tags of the VM. This is only meta information.
tdf
: 
<boolean>
 (
default =
0
)
Enable/disable time drift fix.
template
: 
<boolean>
 (
default =
0
)
Enable/disable Template.
tpmstate0
: 
[file=]<volume> [,format=<raw|qcow2|vmdk>] [,size=<DiskSize>] [,version=<v1.2|v2.0>]
Configure a Disk for storing TPM state. The format is fixed to 
raw
.
file
=
<volume>
The drive’s backing volume.
format
=
<qcow2 | raw | vmdk>
Format of the image.
size
=
<DiskSize>
Disk size. This is purely informational and has no effect.
version
=
<v1.2 | v2.0>
 (
default =
v1.2
)
The TPM interface version. v2.0 is newer and should be preferred. Note that this cannot be changed later on.
unused[n]
: 
[file=]<volume>
Reference to unused volumes. This is used internally, and should not be modified manually.
file
=
<volume>
The drive’s backing volume.
usb[n]
: 
[[host=]<HOSTUSBDEVICE|spice>] [,mapping=<mapping-id>] [,usb3=<1|0>]
Configure an USB device (n is 0 to 4, for machine version >= 7.1 and ostype l26 or windows > 7, n can be up to 14).
host
=
<HOSTUSBDEVICE|spice>
The Host USB device or port or the value 
spice
. HOSTUSBDEVICE syntax is:
'bus-port(.port)*' (decimal numbers) or
'vendor_id:product_id' (hexadecimal numbers) or
'spice'
You can use the 
lsusb -t
 command to list existing usb devices.
This option allows direct access to host hardware. So it is no longer possible to migrate such
machines - use with special care.
The value 
spice
 can be used to add a usb redirection devices for spice.
Either this or the 
mapping
 key must be set.
mapping
=
<mapping-id>
The ID of a cluster wide mapping. Either this or the default-key 
host
 must be set.
usb3
=
<boolean>
 (
default =
0
)
Specifies whether if given host option is a USB3 device or port. For modern guests (machine version >= 7.1 and ostype l26 and windows > 7), this flag is irrelevant (all devices are plugged into a xhci controller).
vcpus
: 
<integer> (1 - N)
 (
default =
0
)
Number of hotplugged vcpus.
vga
: 
[[type=]<enum>] [,clipboard=<vnc>] [,memory=<integer>]
Configure the VGA Hardware. If you want to use high resolution modes (>= 1280x1024x16) you may need to increase the vga memory option. Since QEMU 2.9 the default VGA display type is 
std
 for all OS types besides some Windows versions (XP and older) which use 
cirrus
. The 
qxl
 option enables the SPICE display server. For win* OS you can select how many independent displays you want, Linux guests can add displays them self.
You can also run without any graphic card, using a serial device as terminal.
clipboard
=
<vnc>
Enable a specific clipboard. If not set, depending on the display type the SPICE one will be added. Live migration with a VNC clipboard is not possible with QEMU machine version < 10.1.
memory
=
<integer> (4 - 512)
Sets the VGA memory (in MiB). Has no effect with serial display.
type
=
<cirrus | none | qxl | qxl2 | qxl3 | qxl4 | serial0 | serial1 | serial2 | serial3 | std | virtio | virtio-gl | vmware>
 (
default =
std
)
Select the VGA type. Using type 
cirrus
 is not recommended.
virtio[n]
: 
[file=]<volume> [,aio=<native|threads|io_uring>] [,backup=<1|0>] [,bps=<bps>] [,bps_max_length=<seconds>] [,bps_rd=<bps>] [,bps_rd_max_length=<seconds>] [,bps_wr=<bps>] [,bps_wr_max_length=<seconds>] [,cache=<enum>] [,detect_zeroes=<1|0>] [,discard=<ignore|on>] [,format=<enum>] [,iops=<iops>] [,iops_max=<iops>] [,iops_max_length=<seconds>] [,iops_rd=<iops>] [,iops_rd_max=<iops>] [,iops_rd_max_length=<seconds>] [,iops_wr=<iops>] [,iops_wr_max=<iops>] [,iops_wr_max_length=<seconds>] [,iothread=<1|0>] [,mbps=<mbps>] [,mbps_max=<mbps>] [,mbps_rd=<mbps>] [,mbps_rd_max=<mbps>] [,mbps_wr=<mbps>] [,mbps_wr_max=<mbps>] [,media=<cdrom|disk>] [,replicate=<1|0>] [,rerror=<ignore|report|stop>] [,ro=<1|0>] [,serial=<serial>] [,shared=<1|0>] [,size=<DiskSize>] [,snapshot=<1|0>] [,werror=<enum>]
Use volume as VIRTIO hard disk (n is 0 to 15).
aio
=
<io_uring | native | threads>
AIO type to use.
backup
=
<boolean>
Whether the drive should be included when making backups.
bps
=
<bps>
Maximum r/w speed in bytes per second.
bps_max_length
=
<seconds>
Maximum length of I/O bursts in seconds.
bps_rd
=
<bps>
Maximum read speed in bytes per second.
bps_rd_max_length
=
<seconds>
Maximum length of read I/O bursts in seconds.
bps_wr
=
<bps>
Maximum write speed in bytes per second.
bps_wr_max_length
=
<seconds>
Maximum length of write I/O bursts in seconds.
cache
=
<directsync | none | unsafe | writeback | writethrough>
The drive’s cache mode
detect_zeroes
=
<boolean>
Controls whether to detect and try to optimize writes of zeroes.
discard
=
<ignore | on>
Controls whether to pass discard/trim requests to the underlying storage.
file
=
<volume>
The drive’s backing volume.
format
=
<cloop | qcow | qcow2 | qed | raw | vmdk>
The drive’s backing file’s data format.
iops
=
<iops>
Maximum r/w I/O in operations per second.
iops_max
=
<iops>
Maximum unthrottled r/w I/O pool in operations per second.
iops_max_length
=
<seconds>
Maximum length of I/O bursts in seconds.
iops_rd
=
<iops>
Maximum read I/O in operations per second.
iops_rd_max
=
<iops>
Maximum unthrottled read I/O pool in operations per second.
iops_rd_max_length
=
<seconds>
Maximum length of read I/O bursts in seconds.
iops_wr
=
<iops>
Maximum write I/O in operations per second.
iops_wr_max
=
<iops>
Maximum unthrottled write I/O pool in operations per second.
iops_wr_max_length
=
<seconds>
Maximum length of write I/O bursts in seconds.
iothread
=
<boolean>
Whether to use iothreads for this drive
mbps
=
<mbps>
Maximum r/w speed in megabytes per second.
mbps_max
=
<mbps>
Maximum unthrottled r/w pool in megabytes per second.
mbps_rd
=
<mbps>
Maximum read speed in megabytes per second.
mbps_rd_max
=
<mbps>
Maximum unthrottled read pool in megabytes per second.
mbps_wr
=
<mbps>
Maximum write speed in megabytes per second.
mbps_wr_max
=
<mbps>
Maximum unthrottled write pool in megabytes per second.
media
=
<cdrom | disk>
 (
default =
disk
)
The drive’s media type.
replicate
=
<boolean>
 (
default =
1
)
Whether the drive should considered for replication jobs.
rerror
=
<ignore | report | stop>
Read error action.
ro
=
<boolean>
Whether the drive is read-only.
serial
=
<serial>
The drive’s reported serial number, url-encoded, up to 20 bytes long.
shared
=
<boolean>
 (
default =
0
)
Mark this locally-managed volume as available on all nodes.
This option does not share the volume automatically, it assumes it is shared already!
size
=
<DiskSize>
Disk size. This is purely informational and has no effect.
snapshot
=
<boolean>
Controls qemu’s snapshot mode feature. If activated, changes made to the disk are temporary and will be discarded when the VM is shutdown.
werror
=
<enospc | ignore | report | stop>
Write error action.
virtiofs[n]
: 
[dirid=]<mapping-id> [,cache=<enum>] [,direct-io=<1|0>] [,expose-acl=<1|0>] [,expose-xattr=<1|0>]
Configuration for sharing a directory between host and guest using Virtio-fs.
cache
=
<always | auto | metadata | never>
 (
default =
auto
)
The caching policy the file system should use (auto, always, metadata, never).
direct-io
=
<boolean>
 (
default =
0
)
Honor the O_DIRECT flag passed down by guest applications.
dirid
=
<mapping-id>
Mapping identifier of the directory mapping to be shared with the guest. Also used as a mount tag inside the VM.
expose-acl
=
<boolean>
 (
default =
0
)
Enable support for POSIX ACLs (enabled ACL implies xattr) for this mount.
expose-xattr
=
<boolean>
 (
default =
0
)
Enable support for extended attributes for this mount.
vmgenid
: 
<UUID>
 (
default =
1 (autogenerated)
)
The VM generation ID (vmgenid) device exposes a 128-bit integer value identifier to the guest OS. This allows to notify the guest operating system when the virtual machine is executed with a different configuration (e.g. snapshot execution or creation from a template). The guest operating system notices the change, and is then able to react as appropriate by marking its copies of distributed databases as dirty, re-initializing its random number generator, etc.
Note that auto-creation only works when done through API/CLI create or update methods, but not when manually editing the config file.
vmstatestorage
: 
<storage ID>
Default storage for VM state volumes/files.
watchdog
: 
[[model=]<i6300esb|ib700>] [,action=<enum>]
Create a virtual hardware watchdog device. Once enabled (by a guest action), the watchdog must be periodically polled by an agent inside the guest or else the watchdog will reset the guest (or execute the respective action specified)
action
=
<debug | none | pause | poweroff | reset | shutdown>
The action to perform if after activation the guest fails to poll the watchdog in time.
model
=
<i6300esb | ib700>
 (
default =
i6300esb
)
Watchdog type to emulate.
Locks
Online migrations, snapshots and backups (
vzdump
) set a lock to prevent
incompatible concurrent actions on the affected VMs. Sometimes you need to
remove such a lock manually (for example after a power failure).
# qm unlock <vmid>
Only do that if you are sure the action which set the lock is
no longer running.
Version 9.2.4
Last updated
 Tue Aug  4 00:30:32 CEST 2026
